{
  "article_text": [
    "a much studied problem in non - equilibrium statistical mechanics is the problem of heat conduction .",
    "here one is interested in obtaining the steady state of a system whose two ends are kept at different temperatures .",
    "some of the important problems are to see if local thermal equilibrium is achieved in the steady state , to calculate the temperature profile inside the system and to check the validity of linear response laws relating heat current and temperature gradient ( fourier heat law ) . in this context models with both deterministic and stochastic dynamics have been studied .",
    "rieder et al exactly solved the problem of heat conduction in harmonic chains @xcite .",
    "they found a constant temperature distribution inside the system and a heat current that was independent of system size .",
    "since then , various authors have studied the effect of impurity and nonlinearity in one and two dimensional systems of interacting atoms evolving via deterministic newtonian dynamics @xcite .",
    "numerical studies show that with some kinds of interaction one gets realistic temperature profiles and heat currents proportional to inverse of system size @xcite . for the lorenz gas in the boltzmann - grad limit , it has been proved that the linear boltzmann equation holds and in this case too one gets the fourier law @xcite .",
    "there are however not too many studies on heat conduction in stochastic models .",
    "connor and lebowitz studied the random reflection model in which particles moving on a line are reflected with some probability from randomly spaced scatterers @xcite .",
    "streater has studied heat conduction in a lattice model with finite degrees of freedom @xcite .    in this paper",
    "we are interested in stochastic lattice models of heat conduction .",
    "specifically we look at classical spin systems with some kind of imposed dynamics . in studying spin systems",
    "one typically uses dynamics such as glauber where each point of the lattice is kept in contact with heat baths at given temperature . in this case",
    "the spin flip rates are assumed to satisfy detailed balance condition , with the rates depending on the heat bath temperature . for equilibrium studies",
    "the same temperature is imposed at all points and the steady state is the canonical distribution . however , in studying heat conduction , the temperature distribution in the steady state is not known beforehand and should come out of the dynamics . since the temperature is space dependent and",
    "not known in the beginning , one can not specify the relaxation rates for energy raising and energy lowering transitions .",
    "the only simple choice is to make such rates zero .",
    "thus we use dynamics where there is no exchange of heat with external reservoirs ( except at the two ends ) and there is local conservation of energy . however , in this case the dynamics becomes highly constrained , and it is not clear that it wo nt get stuck .",
    "a requirement of correct phenomenological description is that the system should relax to a state of local thermal equilibrium . in order",
    "that this occurs , we expect that the isolated system should reach thermal equilibrium , that is the dynamics should be ergodic and lead to a microcanonical distribution . in this paper",
    "we address this problem only .",
    "we study heat conduction in our model in a future paper .",
    "it is easy to show that the ising model with single spin flip energy conserving dynamics is non - ergodic in dimensions higher than one .",
    "for example , suppose we take a @xmath1-dimensional hypercubic lattice of @xmath2 sites , and consider the spin configuration of one single up - spin in a sea of down - spins .",
    "if we take periodic boundary conditions then there are @xmath2 degenerate energy configurations corresponding to the @xmath2 places where the single up - spin can be located .",
    "the dynamics does not connect these states .",
    "for other energies too one can show that there is no ergodicity . in order to do microcanonical simulations for the ising model",
    "it is thus necessary to couple it to other degrees of freedom with which it can exchange energy .",
    "this has been studied by bhanot et al @xcite .",
    "heat conduction in the ising model ( with additional degrees of freedom ) was studied by creutz @xcite .",
    "one can ask what happens if we replace the ising spins by continuous spins .",
    "microcanonical simulations of the @xmath0 model have earlier been done by introducing additional degrees of freedom .",
    "this include the molecular dynamics study by kogut and polonyi who introduce momentum variables and use a continuous time hamiltonian dyanmics @xcite .",
    "a microcanonical simulation using the creutz algorithm was done by ota et al @xcite .    in this paper",
    "we consider an energy conserving single spin flip dynamics for the @xmath0 model , with no additional degrees of freedom , and look at its ergodicity properties .",
    "we first study the instructive case of two spins interacting with each other and with external fields .",
    "this case is still non - trivial but can be worked out in full detail .",
    "we show that for generic values of external fields , the phase space trajectories ( note that the trajectory is not continuous and is formed by the random iterates of a phase point ) densely fill the geometrically connected parts of the constant energy contours .",
    "thus whenever the energy contours are fully connected we have ergodicity .",
    "on the other hand , even though the dynamics is discontinuous , we show that jumps between closed disconnected parts of the energy contours are not allowed .",
    "thus in such cases we have non - ergodic behavior and we have as many sectors as disconnected energy parts , within each of which the dynamics is ergodic .",
    "thus ergodicity is related to nature of the constant energy contours .",
    "information regarding the nature of the energy contours can be obtained from a study of the critical points .",
    "these are points at which the derivative of the energy w.r.t all angles vanish .",
    "for instance , if there are two or more stable critical points ( these correspond to fixed points of the dynamics ) with the same energy values then we will have closed energy contours around each of them , which are disconnected .",
    "we find that the nature of energy contours depend on the external fields .",
    "for some fields there are only single sectors at all energies while for other field values there are one or two sectors depending on the energy .",
    "next we study the case of @xmath3 spins . using the two spin results , we prove that even for the general case of @xmath2 interacting spins , the phase space trajectory densely covers the geometrically connected parts of the constant energy surface .",
    "thus ergodicity is related to the connectivity properties of the energy surfaces . as in the two - spin case",
    ", some information can be obtained by looking at the critical points . as an illustrative example , we study a system of three spins interacting with each other and with external fields .",
    "we show that the energy surfaces can be constructed by studying the critical points . in this case",
    "all energy surfaces are connected and phase space trajectories densely fill the surfaces .",
    "finally we study spins on hypercubic lattices in @xmath1 dimensions . in this case",
    "we are not able to obtain a full characterization of the energy surfaces .",
    "however we explicitly construct a large number of spin configurations which correspond to critical points , both stable and hyperbolic , and which span the entire energy spectrum of the system .",
    "the presence of degenerate stable points implies disconnected energy surfaces around the neighborhood of these points .",
    "thus in such cases we get non - ergodic behavior .",
    "however we find some numerical evidence which suggests that such regions where the dynamics is non - ergodic are of small measure .",
    "for example , we find from simulations using the energy conserving dynamics that long time averages of correlation functions are the same as that obtained from a canonical simulation ( which can be shown to be ergodic ) whenever the initial conditions are chosen randomly .",
    "for initial conditions close to stable points the correlation functions can be calculated exactly and differ from the canonical averages . on the other hand if we start with initial conditions close to hyperbolic points we get from simulations results close to the canonical ones .",
    "the paper is organized as follows . in section",
    "ii we define the model and the dynamics . in section",
    "iii the two spin case is first studied .",
    "the general case of @xmath3 spin case is studied in section iv .",
    "in the @xmath0 model each spin is a two - component unit vector specified by the angle @xmath4 that it makes with some fixed axis .",
    "equivalently every spin can be denoted by the complex number @xmath5 .",
    "the interaction energy for spins on a lattice is given by @xmath6 where the sum is over all nearest neighbors .",
    "the dynamics is the following : during an infinitesimal time @xmath7 each spin undergoes an energy conserving flip with a probability @xmath7 . for discrete time evolution , as would be required for a computer implementation of the dynamics , this is equivalent to choosing a spin randomly at every time step and flipping it .",
    "let @xmath8 be the net magnetic field at a site due to all the other nearest neighbor sites .",
    "then the spin flip is given by the map @xmath9 which corresponds to a reflection of the spin @xmath10 about the direction @xmath11 .",
    "for ergodic behavior it is necessary that starting from a generic initial condition it should be possible to access all other points on the constant energy surface .",
    "the detailed balance condition then ensures that a uniform probability distribution over the energy surface is the stationary distribution .",
    "we note that a generalization of the above dynamics to the @xmath12-vector model can be made . for the ising model",
    "@xmath13 a flip can only occur if a spin has equal number of up and down neighbors . for the @xmath0 model @xmath14",
    "there is always a unique flipped state . for higher",
    "@xmath12 the spin can flip to a continuum of values .",
    "consider two spins @xmath15 and @xmath16 coupled to each other by the xy - interaction and also interacting with constant external fields of magnitude @xmath17 and @xmath18 and directions given by the angles @xmath19 and @xmath20 .",
    "the fields @xmath17 and @xmath18 could be the effect of other spins held fixed in a bigger system .",
    "the energy of the system is given by @xmath21 here @xmath22 and @xmath23 are the angles of the two spins",
    ". we can choose the reference axis such that @xmath24 and @xmath25 .",
    "if we are interested only in finding the region that is accessed by the system , then for the two spin case , we may as well flip the spins successively .",
    "this is sufficient since flipping a spin twice successively leaves it unchanged .",
    "thus we study the deterministic maps @xmath26    we first note the following points . in general any constant @xmath27 line will intersect the constant energy contour given by @xmath28 at two points only .",
    "these correspond to the two equal energy configurations of a spin in a net magnetic field .",
    "the energy contours can thus be of the forms shown in fig .",
    "1 . in ( a )",
    "the contours are connected while in ( b ) and ( c ) they are disconnected .",
    "however it is clear that the dynamics allows transitions between the disconnected parts in ( b ) but not so in case ( c ) .",
    "this is because , at every step of the dynamics , only one spin can change . but",
    "moving between the disconnected parts of the energy contours in ( c ) requires two spins to change simultaneously .",
    "thus whenever there are closed disconnected contours , that are non - spanning , there can be no transitions from one to the other .",
    "we now show that for generic fields and initial conditions the trajectories are non - periodic and densely fill the constant energy contours .",
    "the proof consists of the following observations :    \\(i ) considered as a map in the @xmath22 , @xmath29 plane , ( 3 ) is area preserving , i.e it has jacobian of modulus one .",
    "this is easily proved by writing eqns .",
    "( 3 ) in the form @xmath30 , where @xmath31 and @xmath32 are given functions .",
    "thus the map can have no attractive periodic points .",
    "( ii)the map ( 3 ) is equivalent to a smooth invertible map on the circle . since there can be no attracting set of points , two kinds of behavior of the trajectories is possible .",
    "either all trajectories are periodic with the same period or else trajectories are aperiodic and densely fill the circle .",
    "( iii)for periodic orbits of order @xmath12 we must have @xmath33 and @xmath34 . for generic values of the fields",
    ", these equations will have a finite number of solutions , and therefore it follows that all points can not belong to periodic orbits .",
    "hence , because of ( ii ) , all trajectories are aperiodic and fill the energy contours densely .",
    "it is however possible that at some special value of the fields the above eqns for periodic orbits are satisfied identically for some @xmath12 . in that case",
    "all trajectories are periodic orbits of order @xmath12 .",
    "thus , as an example , for @xmath35 , the equations @xmath36 are identically satisfied .",
    "all points are then periodic of order @xmath37 and there are is no ergodicity .",
    "however if we change @xmath18 by an infinitesimal amount then the trajectories become dense .",
    "this can be seen in fig .",
    "2 where we plot phase space trajectories for different initial conditions for @xmath38 .",
    "for the two spin case the nature of the constant energy contours can be completely determined by studying the critical points of the energy function @xmath39 .",
    "the critical points are obtained by setting the first derivatives of @xmath40 w.r.t @xmath22 and @xmath29 to zero .",
    "thus we get : @xmath41 these equations can be written in the more transparent form : @xmath42 this form also follows from eqns ( 3 ) and imply that at the critical points either the field at any site vanishes or is parallel to the spin at that site .",
    "if the field does not vanish at both the sites then the critical point will be a fixed point of the dynamics .",
    "the nature of the critical points can be found by finding the eigenvalues of the matrix @xmath43 evaluated at the critical points .",
    "we are interested in finding the phase diagram in the ( @xmath44 ) space showing regions where the energy contours are connected and the regions where they are disconnected . as we shall show now",
    "this can be obtained by studying solutions of eqn .",
    "first we note certain symmetries of eqn .",
    "it is left unchanged by the following transformations : ( 1)@xmath45 , @xmath46 ; ( 2 ) @xmath47 , @xmath48 ; ( 3)@xmath49 , @xmath50 , @xmath51 ; ( 4 ) @xmath52 , @xmath53 , @xmath50 ; ( 5 ) @xmath54 , @xmath55 , @xmath56 , @xmath57 .",
    "it can also be shown that the equations determining the nature of the critical points are also invariant under the above transformations . because of these symmetries it is sufficient to consider the subspace given by @xmath58 .    from eqn ( 5 ) we get the following equation for @xmath15 @xmath59 for every solution @xmath15 of ( 6 ) , @xmath16 is uniquely determined through the equation : @xmath60 thus in general we obtain six sets of solutions to ( 5 ) .",
    "the solutions for which @xmath15 and @xmath16 have modulus one correspond to the physically relevant solutions .",
    "let us first consider the case @xmath61 , for which ( 6 ) can be solved for @xmath15 .",
    "we obtain the following six solutions : @xmath62 and @xmath63 where @xmath64 and @xmath65 .",
    "we see that two of the critical points merge and disappear as the lines @xmath66 are crossed . in fig .",
    "3 we plot the phase diagram which shows the nature of the critical points in different regions in the @xmath67 plane .",
    "the important point to note is that in the region enclosed by the three curves , where we have three stable fixed points , we get disconnected energy contours .",
    "this is because of the following reason .",
    "consider what happens as we move along some constant @xmath17 line as shown in fig .",
    "3 . at point @xmath68",
    "just below the phase boundary we have two stable critical points;@xmath69 , which is a energy minima and @xmath70 which is a maxima .",
    "the other two points @xmath71 and @xmath72 are hyperbolic points .",
    "as we cross the line to point @xmath73 , @xmath70 becomes unstable and at the same time , two new stable points , degenerate in energy appear from this point .",
    "the separatrix passing through @xmath70 encloses both the stable points .",
    "this at once implies that there will be disconnected closed energy contours of identical energies around the two stable points .",
    "in fact for all energy values greater than the separatrix energy , we get disconnected sectors , while for lower energies there are only single sectors .",
    "similarly as we cross from the point @xmath74 to @xmath75 in fig .",
    "3 , the two degenerate stable maxima merge with the unstable point @xmath71 to give rise to a single stable point . hence at @xmath75 and all points above this we have only connected energy contours for all energy values . to illustrate the above point we plot in fig .",
    "4 the energy contours for field values corresponding to the points @xmath76 and @xmath75 .",
    "the energy contours were obtained by starting from different initial conditions and evolving through the map ( 3 ) .    for @xmath77 , we can no longer solve eqn ( 6 ) explicitly .",
    "however we can still obtain the phase diagram . in this case for fixed @xmath17 suppose we increase the @xmath18 value starting from zero .",
    "initially we have two stable critical points , one of which is a minima and the other a maxima , and two hyperbolic points .",
    "as we increase @xmath18 a pair of critical points , one stable and the other hyperbolic , appears in the region around the maxima .",
    "the separatrix passing through this new hyperbolic point encloses both the maxima and the new stable point which is also a maxima .",
    "the two maxima may not be degenerate but clearly , for a range of energy values greater than the separatrix energy and less than the energy of the smaller maxima , we will have disconnected energy contours . since the extra pair of critical points emerge from a single point , the phase diagram can be obtained by finding the condition for two roots of eqn ( 6 ) to be identical . the equation that we thus get can be solved numerically and we obtain the phase diagram shown in fig .",
    "5 . this shows various constant @xmath78 sections of the phase diagram . in fig .",
    "6 we plot constant energy contours for non zero @xmath78 and for field values on the two sides of the phase boundary .",
    "the plot illustrates the appearance of critical points and associated with it the disconnected energy contours .    to summarize the results obtained so far",
    ", we have shown that for a two spin system , for generic values of external fields , the dynamics is ergodic on the geometrically connected parts of energy contours .",
    "there are as many sectors as disconnected parts .",
    "studying the critical points enables us to obtain full information on the number of sectors as a function of the fields and energy .",
    "we now give some results that are valid for any number of spins . in this case too , if there are closed disconnected surfaces with the same energy , the dynamics does not allow transitions between them .",
    "this simply follows from the fact that any line , along which only @xmath79 varies , will intersect a closed energy surface at two points . since we allow single flips only , at every time step , one can move only between these two points on the same surface .",
    "it can also be shown that for the many spins case , phase space trajectories obtained for generic initial conditions densely fill the connected parts of the constant energy surface .",
    "this is an important result since it implies ergodicity within sectors .",
    "consider any point @xmath80 on the energy surface .",
    "suppose we take any two nearest neighbor spins @xmath79 and @xmath81 and flip them successively while keeping all other spins fixed .",
    "the fixed spins in this case act as external fields .",
    "we know from the two spin case that for almost every value of the external fields , which in this case means for almost any configuration of the fixed spins , the trajectory will be dense in the restricted phase space .",
    "the restricted phase space is the intersection between the energy surface and the @xmath79-@xmath81 plane . by choosing different nearest neighbor pairs of spins",
    ", we can have @xmath82 independent directions emerging from the point @xmath83 on the @xmath82 dimensional energy surface , along each of which there exists a dense orbit .",
    "this in turn means that , for every point there exists a neighborhood such that all points of the neighborhood can be reached by the dynamics .",
    "hence the trajectory obtained by evolving any initial condition can not have a boundary and so has to fill all of the connected part of the energy surface .",
    "finally to obtain information on the connectivity of the energy surfaces , one can study the critical points .",
    "however unlike the two spin case , for more number of spins , we are not able to do this in full detail .          in this case depending on the the sequence in which the spins are flipped we get different maps in the three dimensional phase space . here",
    "we look at the stochastic map in which any one spin is chosen with equal probability and flipped . thus if we represent the three spins by complex numbers @xmath15 , @xmath16 and @xmath85 then at every time step we choose one of the following maps : @xmath86      the critical points are obtained by setting to zero the first derivatives of @xmath89 w.r.t @xmath22,@xmath29 and @xmath90 .",
    "this is equivalent to the condition that at every site the net field is either parallel to the spin at that site or it vanishes . thus from ( 7 ) we get : @xmath91 solving the above equations we obtain the following critical points : @xmath92 , @xmath93 , @xmath94 , @xmath95 , @xmath96 , @xmath97 . in fig .",
    "7 , we show the locations of these critical points in the @xmath98 phase space .    by expanding @xmath99 around the critical points",
    "it can be shown that @xmath100 is a minimum of the energy with @xmath101 while @xmath102 is a maximum with @xmath103 .",
    "the points @xmath104 and @xmath105 are hyperbolic points with @xmath106 .",
    "the lines @xmath107 and @xmath108 consist of hyperbolic points and correspond to @xmath109 .",
    "knowing the nature of all the critical points and by carefully looking at the energy function , we construct the following picture of the energy surfaces : the point @xmath100 is the lowest energy state corresponding to all spins aligned along the field direction . for @xmath110 ,",
    "the constant energy surfaces are ellipsoidal , enclosing the point @xmath100 .",
    "in fact for @xmath111 the energy surfaces are all closed deformed ellipses . at @xmath112",
    "the energy surface passes through the two unstable points @xmath104 and @xmath105 . for @xmath113",
    "we get spanning surfaces .",
    "the @xmath114 surface is again closed and passes through the critical lines @xmath107 and @xmath108 .",
    "finally for @xmath115 , the surfaces are closed around the other stable point at @xmath102 .",
    "we note that in all cases the energy surfaces are connected .",
    "let us now look at the numerically obtained phase space trajectories for different energy values .",
    "these are shown in fig . 8 .",
    "for every energy value the trajectory was obtained by evolving a single initial condition . in all cases",
    "the dynamics appears to be ergodic .",
    "the energy values were chosen so that all the different types of surfaces discussed above are generated .",
    "for example it can be seen that at @xmath116 we get a spanning surface while for @xmath117 the surfaces are closed .",
    "the surface in fig .",
    "8c is a spanning surface topologically equivalent to the one in fig",
    ". 8d . to further verify the ergodic nature of the trajectories we plot in fig .",
    "9 constant @xmath29 sections of the phase space trajectory for the energy value @xmath116 .",
    "it is easy to understand the form of the contours if we rewrite the energy in the following way @xmath118 for other values of energy we get results similar to those in fig .",
    "9 .        on a general hypercubic lattice",
    "consisting of @xmath2 sites the equations for the critical points is @xmath119 the sum over @xmath120 is over nearest neighbors of @xmath121 . in all cases",
    "we assume periodic boundary conditions .",
    "we have not been able to obtain the full set of solutions of these equations and analyze their structure .",
    "we have done this for a class of solutions and this is described below .",
    "the one dimensional case is a special case and we first describe it .",
    "first we note that in this case , if we set all the coupling constants strictly to one then the dynamics is not ergodic even within sectors .",
    "the proof of ergodicity in iii breaks down .",
    "this is because fixing all spins except two nearest neighbors now corresponds to the special case @xmath122 mentioned in section iii , which was shown to be periodic .",
    "however it was seen that if we make the couplings different from one by arbitrarily small amounts , then we get ergodicity ( within sectors ) . assuming this has been done we can still determine the phase space structure with the couplings set equal to one .",
    "the set of eqns .",
    "( 9 ) can be written in the following equivalent form : @xmath123 due to periodic boundary condition we have @xmath124 and @xmath125 .",
    "thus we have @xmath126 sets of equations whose solution would give us the critical points .",
    "it is easy to see that the only stable solutions ( stable in all directions except for a uniform rotation ) are obtained from the set of equations @xmath127 every other of the @xmath126 sets gives saddle points since there are one or more sites where the field vanishes and at those sites one can freely rotate the spins without changing the energy . for this set since the fields do nt vanish at any site they also correspond to fixed points of the dynamics . that the above set is stable is proved by explicitly solving for the fixed points and analyzing their nature .",
    "we get @xmath2 solutions given by @xmath128 with @xmath12 going from @xmath129 to @xmath2 .",
    "the factor @xmath15 signifies the fact that the direction of one of the spins can be fixed arbitrarily .",
    "we now look at the matrix @xmath130 evaluated at the fixed points .",
    "the non - vanishing matrix elements thus obtained are @xmath131 , @xmath132 . here",
    "@xmath12 refers to the @xmath12th fixed point .",
    "this can be easily diagonalised and gives the eigenvalues @xmath133 except the first eigenvalue @xmath134 which corresponds to a uniform rotation , all other eigenvalues are non - vanishing and have the same signs .",
    "thus all fixed points are stable and the energy surfaces around them are elliptical .",
    "for the case when @xmath2 is a multiple of @xmath135 , a special case arises for the @xmath136th fixed point . in this case all eigenvalues vanish .",
    "this is because in this case the field at every site vanishes and spins can rotate freely .    the energy of the @xmath12th fixed point is given by @xmath137 and we note that every fixed point except those corresponding to the lowest and highest energies are doubly degenerate ( for even @xmath2 ) .",
    "the energy surfaces around these fixed points thus consist of two disconnected parts each of which is closed .",
    "another set of solutions of eqns.(10 ) is obtained by choosing any arbitrary direction and aligning every spin either along or opposite to it .",
    "the all up and the alternating up and down configurations have already been generated in the previous set of solutions .",
    "all the other solutions are saddles and it is easy to see that the degenerate points are all connected .",
    "the degeneracy of each solution is given by the number of configurations with a fixed number of bad bonds .      in higher dimension , eqns .",
    "( 9 ) are highly nonlinear and classifying all solutions is a difficult task .",
    "however we obtain by inspection a set of solutions corresponding to spin - waves . these are of the form @xmath138 where the vector @xmath139 denotes points on the d - dimensional lattice with integral coordinates @xmath140 and @xmath141 denotes one of the @xmath142 solutions .",
    "the indices @xmath143 and @xmath144 take values @xmath145 . as before the solutions contain an arbitrary constant phase factor @xmath10 .    to understand the nature of the critical points we again look at the eigenvalues of the matrix @xmath146 , evaluated at the critical points .",
    "the non - vanishing matrix elements are in general given by @xmath147 and @xmath148 . here",
    "@xmath149 denotes the nearest neighbors along the @xmath150th axis , namely the points @xmath151 . in our case",
    "the matrix elements at the critical point @xmath152 are @xmath153 and @xmath154 .",
    "it is easy to show that the eigenvalues of this matrix are @xmath155 unlike in the one - dimensional case eigenvalues corresponding to a critical point can have opposite signs .",
    "in fact the only stable critical points are those for which @xmath156 has the same sign for all @xmath150 . to show this suppose there exists in the set @xmath157 two values @xmath158 and @xmath159 for which @xmath160 and @xmath161 have the opposite signs .",
    "then the eigenvalues for @xmath162 and @xmath163 have opposite signs . to find whether the critical points correspond to fixed points we look at the fields at each site .",
    "this is given by @xmath164 .",
    "thus except for the small subset of points satisfying @xmath165 , all other critical points are fixed points . unlike the one dimensional case",
    ", here we may have other fixed points corresponding to other solutions of eqns.(9 ) .",
    "the energy of the critical point @xmath152 is @xmath166 .",
    "we note that the spectrum of energies spans the entire allowed energy range .",
    "if @xmath167 is the number of non - zero coordinate values in the set @xmath152 , then there is a degeneracy of @xmath168 associated with the corresponding energy value since we can flip the signs of @xmath144 without affecting the energies .",
    "the fact that there exist degenerate stable fixed points implies that there are disconnected energy surfaces corresponding to the neighborhoods of these points .",
    "this proves that the dynamics is non - ergodic for certain energies .",
    "it is however possible that we can get ergodicity for energies corresponding to unstable points and their neighborhood .",
    "the following numerical simulations address this question .",
    "we took a @xmath169 square lattice and computed @xmath129st , @xmath170nd , @xmath37rd and @xmath135th nearest neighbor correlation functions ( @xmath171,@xmath172,@xmath173,@xmath174 ) using monte - carlo simulation .",
    "we study the two cases when the initial data is chosen close to a stable or close to an unstable point . in each case",
    "we compare the results with those obtained from randomly chosen initial configuration .",
    "close to a stable fixed point the correlation function @xmath175 can be calculated exactly . at the fixed point @xmath152",
    "this is simply @xmath176 .",
    "the correlation @xmath177 evaluated in the simulations corresponds to @xmath178 .",
    "the following table gives the numerical data and also the exact values at the stable points :       as expected for the stable case we get results totally different from the random case . on the other hand at the unstable points we get the same correlations as with random initial conditions .",
    "thus as far as correlation functions are concerned there seems to be no dependence on initial conditions provided we do nt start from near stable points .",
    "next we show that the correlation functions obtained with randomly chosen initial conditions are the same as those obtained from a canonical simulation . in fig .",
    "10 we plot the correlations @xmath172 , @xmath173 and @xmath174 against the average energy given by @xmath171 for data obtained from the energy conserving dynamics and from a canonical simulation . in the canonical simulation",
    "each spin is coupled to a heat bath at some temperature and clearly we have ergodicity . for the energy conserving dynamics we started with a high energy configuration of spins pointing in random directions . subsequently the energy was decreased by choosing spins randomly and aligning them along the local field direction . for each configuration obtained in this way we calculated the correlation functions .",
    "the data from the two approaches seem to match closely .",
    "finally we note that as in the one dimensional case , another class of solutions of the critical point equations can be written .",
    "these are the solutions for which every spin points either along or opposite to a fixed direction .",
    "these critical points may be either stable or unstable .",
    "for example consider the spin configuration of a single up - spin in a sea of down - spins .",
    "this is an unstable fixed point .",
    "the different fixed points , corresponding to the @xmath2 different locations of the single up - spin , are all connected . to show this suppose we start from a configuration which is arbitrarily close to such a fixed point .",
    "now we fix all spins except for the single up - spin and any one of its down neighbors .",
    "the results in section iii imply that by flipping these two spins successively we can reach the configuration in which the two spins have interchanged their orientations . repeating this for different nearest neighbor spin pairs",
    ", we can reach all the @xmath2 fixed points .",
    "this is different from the ising model with similar dynamics where the system would remain stuck in one of the fixed points .",
    "the above procedure can be used to prove hyperbolicity of other fixed points also .    in conclusion , we have studied a stochastic energy conserving single spin flip dynamics of the @xmath0 model .",
    "we find that phase space trajectories fill connected parts of the energy surface and there is loss of ergodicity whenever the energy surface consists of closed disconnected parts .",
    "we also show that one can obtain information about the nature of the energy surfaces by studying the critical points of the energy function .",
    "this can be done in full detail for a two - spin system . for spins on hypercubic lattices",
    "we have proved that the dynamics is not ergodic for all energies and time averages of physical quantities depend on choice of initial conditions .",
    "however , the total weight of non - typical initial conditions appears to be small and the dynamics is effectively ergodic .",
    "z. rieder , j. l. lebowitz and e. lieb , j. math .",
    "* 8 * , 1073 ( 1967 ) .",
    "r. rubin and w. greer , j. math . phys .",
    "* 12 * , 1686 ( 1971 ) .",
    "a. j. oconnor and j. l. lebowitz , j. math .",
    "phys . * 15 * , 692 ( 1974 ) .",
    "g. casati , foundations of phys .",
    "* 16 * , 51 ( 1986 ) ;",
    "e. a. jackson and a. d. mistriotis , j. phys",
    ". condens .",
    "matter * 1 * , 1223 ( 1989 ) .",
    "j. l. lebowitz and h. spohn , j. stat .",
    "* 19 * , 633 ( 1978 ) .",
    "r. f. streater , j. phys . a : math gen .",
    "* 26 * , 1553 ( 1993 ) .",
    "g. bhanot , m.creutz , h. neuberger , nucl .",
    "b * 235 * , 417 ( 1984 ) .",
    "m. creutz , annals of phys . * 167 * , 62 ( 1986 ) .",
    "j. kogut and j. polonyi , nucl .",
    "b * 265 * , 313 ( 1986 ) .",
    "smita ota , s. b. ota and m. fahnle , j. phys .",
    "matter * 4 * , 5411 ( 1992 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a single spin flip stochastic energy conserving dynamics for the @xmath0 model is considered . </S>",
    "<S> we study the ergodicity properties of the dynamics . it is shown that phase space trajectories densely fill the geometrically connected parts of the energy surface . </S>",
    "<S> we also show that while the dynamics is discrete and the phase point jumps around , it can not make transitions between closed disconnected parts of the energy surface . </S>",
    "<S> thus the number of distinct sectors depends on the number of geometrically disconnected parts of the energy surface . </S>",
    "<S> information on the connectivity of the surfaces is obtained by studying the critical points of the energy function . </S>",
    "<S> we study in detail the case of two spins and find that the number of sectors can be either one or two , depending on the external fields and the energy . for a periodic lattice in @xmath1 dimensions , </S>",
    "<S> we find regions in phase space where the dynamics is non - ergodic and obtain a lower bound on the number of disconnected sectors . </S>",
    "<S> we provide some numerical evidence which suggests that such regions might be of small measure so that the dynamics is effectively ergodic .    </S>",
    "<S> = 16.0 cm = 0.0 cm = 0.0 cm </S>"
  ]
}