{
  "article_text": [
    "superfluidity and superconductivity are phenomena at the heart of quantum mechanics of many - body systems .",
    "their importance is not limited to condensed matter physics and some of the concepts involved in their understanding have been seminal in other contexts , most notably in quantum field theory @xcite . a wealth of experimental informations on macroscopic quantum transport has been collected by studying the bose and fermi isotopes of helium in the superfluid phase and the electron liquids in superconductors @xcite . with the advent of bose - einstein condensates of dilute gases consequent to the development of innovative cooling technologies @xcite , the class of systems available for studying superfluidity has been enlarged to many other species , namely various isotopes and hyperfine states of alkalis as well as atomic hydrogen , metastable helium , and ytterbium . besides the richer spectrum of investigable atomic systems , in the case of dilute gases one can exploit their intrinsically slower dynamics - low densities imply weak average interactions - to study formation and decay of interesting structures like vortices , a possibility very hard to achieve in the denser liquid helium . moreover , unlike liquid helium , the precision achievable with atomic physics experimental techniques , and the possibility to control the theoretical many - body approximations , are two other reasons which have contributed to the fast development of this sector at the borderline between atomic and condensed matter physics .",
    "after the pioneering observation of bose - einstein condensation ( bec ) in dilute gases of @xmath0rb @xcite , @xmath1na @xcite , and @xmath2li @xcite , a lot of experimental and theoretical activities have been focused on the signatures of superfluid behaviour in this novel low - density state of matter ( see for instance @xcite ) .",
    "examples are the formation of vortices by means of optomechanical driving @xcite and mechanical stirring @xcite , the spectroscopy of scissor modes @xcite , the studies of superfluid flow and the related onset of a critical velocity @xcite .",
    "these experimental achievements have been complemented by relatively simple , first - principle theoretical studies with significant progress in the comprehension of longstanding issues in liquid @xmath3he , like critical velocities and vortex formation @xcite .",
    "even more interesting is the study , still completely open from the experimental viewpoint , of superfluid features in fermi dilute gases @xcite .",
    "the presence of a superfluid phase is expected to occur in the deep degenerate regime via a sort of atomic cooper pairing @xcite , on the basis of qualitative analogies to the case of @xmath4he and , more in general , to high density electron liquids in superconductors .    in this paper",
    "we discuss in some length a recent proposal to confine and cool two - species fermi and bose gases in a bichromatic optical dipole trap @xcite .",
    "this configuration allows for selective trapping of the two species with different trapping strengths . since the confinement determines the degeneracy conditions , a regime can be chosen such that the fermi temperature is much larger than the bose - einstein condensation temperature . in this case",
    ", a deep fermi degeneracy could be achieved before ( or in proximity ) of the bec phase - transition for the bose component , leading to various advantages in the search for superfluidity in dilute fermions amidst a thermal ( or thermally - dominated ) bose gas .",
    "this would provide an unprecedented situation as compared to the already available @xmath4he-@xmath5he mixture . in principle , many fermi - bose mixtures can be studied .",
    "we will focus the discussion on the best two bose coolers available , @xmath6na and @xmath7rb - the workhorses for bose - einstein condensation - and the only two stable fermi isotopes for alkali atoms , @xmath8li and @xmath9k .",
    "the paper is organized as follows . in section 2",
    "we briefly describe the experimental techniques specific to the trapping and cooling of fermi dilute gases , and then give an updated overview of the current experimental efforts in reaching fermi degeneracy . in section 3",
    "we introduce our proposal by discussing the conservative trapping features in various configurations and for diverse combinations of fermi - bose mixtures .",
    "in section 4 we discuss evaporative cooling for the boson species by giving a specific example of its dynamics in the case of one - color and two - color single - beam optical dipole traps . in section 5",
    "we deal with sympathetic cooling , with particular regard to the limitations to the minimum achievable temperatures induced by the heat capacities of the two species . in the same section , we discuss qualitatively also some methods to evidence a possible superfluid state in the fermi component , and comment on the advantages of having a thermal bose cloud rather than the only bose condensed component .",
    "general features of our proposal are summarized and discussed in the conclusions .",
    "as a general consequence of the heisenberg principle , quantum degeneracy occurs at temperatures very similar for bosons and fermions in presence ( or absence ) of external confining potentials with comparable strength .",
    "it is therefore natural to apply to the fermi gases the successful trapping and cooling techniques already developed for bosons and culminating in the observation of a bose condensed phase .",
    "however , there are also very striking differences between bosons and fermions in the degenerate regime . for instance",
    ", fermions enter into a degenerate regime without the sharp phase transition characteristic of bosons . also , when dealing with fermi systems one has always to face the effects of the pauli principle which freezes most of the available degrees of freedom .",
    "the effects of the pauli principle are particularly felt in all the current experimental efforts to achieve full degeneracy and to evidence a superfluid phase in fermi systems confined by means of magnetic traps . with this trapping technique",
    "only spin - polarized fermi gases can be confined and cooling is ultimately obtained - like in their bosonic counterparts - by the selective removal of the most energetic part of the atomic cloud allowing for rethermalization of the remaining fraction .",
    "consequently , since the atoms are polarized in the same hyperfine state , the pauli principle forbids the @xmath10-wave elastic scattering .",
    "then rethermalization becomes inefficient at low temperature where the contribution of odd angular momentum states ( like @xmath11-wave scattering ) is strongly suppressed , and this limits the efficiency of direct evaporative cooling among fermions in the same hyperfine state .",
    "two routes to overcome this limitation have been implemented , dual evaporative cooling of fermions prepared in two different hyperfine states , and sympathetic cooling with a bose refrigerant . even in these situations",
    "the pauli principle gives limitations , as the elastic scattering between different hyperfine states is inhibited by the so - called pauli blocking @xcite : the atoms available to elastic scattering are limited to the fermi surface and their number is directly proportional to @xmath12 .",
    "the use of sympathetic cooling with a boson reservoir is instead obstacled by the superfluidity of the latter @xcite , the fact that the specific heat of the bose gas quickly vanishes fot @xmath13 , and ultimately by pauli blocking . as a matter of fact",
    ", the lowest temperatures presently achieved for fermions are limited in the 0.05 - 0.2 @xmath14 range @xcite .",
    "concerning the trapping techniques , the use of magnetic traps gives limitations in the combinatorics of trappable hyperfine states and interferes with the use of tunable homogeneous magnetic fields required to enhance atomic scattering via feshbach resonances as predicted in @xcite ( see also @xcite for a recent review ) and observed in various atomic systems @xcite .",
    "feshbach resonances provide a mechanism that could be crucial to identify signatures of superfluidity even at relatively large temperatures , the so - called _ resonant _ superfluidity @xcite .",
    "some of the above mentioned limitations can be overcome by using optical dipole traps @xcite . both different hyperfine states and arbitrary magnetic fields can be used in this case .",
    "optical dipole traps have been pursued as a way to obtain quantum degeneracy with purely optical tools , avoiding the complications of magnetic trapping @xcite .",
    "after studies on degenerate bose gases generated in magnetic traps and then transferred into optical dipole traps @xcite , both bec @xcite and fermi degeneracy @xcite have been achieved directly in all - optical traps .",
    "also , preliminary studies of feshbach resonances for fermions in an optical trap have been reported in @xcite .",
    "more recently , studies of strongly interacting fermi gases have been reported in the case of fermi - bose mixtures @xcite and two - component fermi gases @xcite . in the latter case",
    "the expansion dynamics has been interpreted as a possible evidence of resonant superfluidity as predicted in @xcite .",
    "the experimental situation , updated to the summer 2003 , is summarized in table 1 .",
    ".status of the experimental studies of degenerate fermi dilute gases . for each laboratory",
    "the various trapped species are reported specifying the particular hyperfine state @xmath15 , the number of fermions at the final stage of cooling @xmath16 , the lowest reached temperature ratio @xmath12 , and the related reference .",
    "the quoted experiments at jila and duke university make use of dual evaporative cooling of two hyperfine states of magnetically trapped potassium and optically trapped lithium , respectively .",
    "the other experiments exploit sympathetic cooling with bosonic reservoirs , @xmath17li,@xmath1na , and @xmath0rb .",
    "more recently , sympathetic cooling of @xmath18k with @xmath0rb has been also pursued at jila @xcite . in subsequent work",
    "the duke university group has reached deeper degeneracy and observed an anisotropic expansion of the fermi gas , which could be interpreted as an evidence of superfluid behavior of the fermi gas @xcite .",
    "more recent experiments use feshbach resonances , resulting in high - efficiency production of potassium or lithium ultracold molecules . in the experiment described in @xcite",
    "the fermi - bose mixture is an intermediate stage , then all the bosons are removed and the fermions are prepared in an incoherent mixture of equal populations in the @xmath19 and @xmath20 states . [ cols=\"^,>,^,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     however , the large rayleigh scattering rate per unit of power for the @xmath18k-@xmath0rb mixture is less frightening since this mixture has also a critical power ratio smaller by one order of magnitude with respect to the other ones , if equal waists are assumed .",
    "the lifetime estimated for @xmath21li-@xmath1na is long enough to perform various experiments aimed at evidencing superfluidity features , such as mechanical stirring or generation of collective excitations .",
    "the study of the dynamics of evaporative cooling is a prerequisite to discuss sympathetic cooling of fermions through their interactions with the bose gas .",
    "heat exchange between two ensembles is perhaps the most widespread thermodynamic process occurring in nature .",
    "thus , as a general method to refrigerate an atomic or molecular ensemble whose direct cooling is difficult to achieve , one can spatially and temporally overlap it with a colder ensemble , the so - called sympathetic cooling .",
    "this process has been first demonstrated at the microscopic level for trapped ions @xcite , then for neutral atoms and molecules via use of cryogenically cooled helium gas @xcite .",
    "more recently , with the advent of ultracold atomic physics , sympathetic cooling in the microkelvin and nanokelvin ranges has been achieved for bosons in different internal states @xcite , in different isotopes @xcite , and for different species @xcite .",
    "the elastic scattering properties among fermions and bosons at very low temperatures , which strongly influence the efficacy of sympathetic cooling , are starting to be collected for various atomic mixtures @xcite .",
    "one potential problem common to all the mixtures is the diminished heat exchange capability of bosons when approaching condensation . in particular , fermions can be considered as impurities in the boson cloud and below @xmath22 the bose gas has a condensed fraction which is expected to be superfluid .",
    "based on the landau criterion for the critical velocity in a superfluid , we do expect fermi - bose collisions to be suppressed when the fermi velocity becomes smaller than the sound velocity of the bose gas @xcite .",
    "this has been also experimentally demonstrated @xcite . the fermi velocity , defined by @xmath23 ,",
    "can be expressed in terms of the trapping parameters as @xmath24 on the other hand , the sound velocity @xmath25 for the bose gas can be written in terms of the chemical potential as @xmath26leading , in the thomas - fermi limit , to @xmath27 where @xmath28 is the boson @xmath10-wave scattering length .",
    "the @xmath29 ratio is , therefore , @xmath30    the following remarks are in order : _ a _ ) the velocity ratio ( [ vratio ] ) scales with the square root of the trapping frequencies , so that it helps to have @xmath31 to avoid suppression of fermi - bose scattering ; _ b _ ) the velocity ratio also depends upon the number of fermions and bosons .",
    "if the former are kept constant in the trap and the latter undergo evaporative cooling , the velocity ratio is increased ; _ c _ ) the ratio @xmath29 is already large for conventional single - color optical dipole traps .",
    "for instance , if @xmath32 s@xmath33 and @xmath34 , for a @xmath21li-@xmath1na mixture we have @xmath35 . in this case",
    ", the loss of cooling efficiency becomes relevant for fermion velocities @xmath36 corresponding to @xmath37 .",
    "it seems therefore that this mixture will hardly enter into the regime where superfluid suppression of impurity scattering is significant .",
    "a more stringent limitation to sympathetic cooling is instead set by the classical heat exchange between bosons and fermions . in figure 8",
    "we show the dependence of the ratio between the heat capacities for the bose and the fermi species , @xmath38 , in bichromatic traps with single and crossed - beam configurations .",
    "is shown versus time for the evaporative cooling strategies chosen in figure 7 for single - beam ( dashed ) and crossed - beam ( solid ) configurations .",
    "the time evolution of the temperature ratios @xmath12 and @xmath39 is shown for the single - beam ( center panel ) and crossed - beam ( bottom panel ) configurations.,scaledwidth=70.0% ]    this gives us a picture of the efficiency of sympathetic cooling since this process breaks down when the ratio @xmath38 becomes of the order of unity .",
    "the heat capacities have been evaluated numerically as described in appendix a taking into account the time dependence of the various parameters , in particular the diminishing number of bosons during forced evaporation .",
    "the effect of many - body interactions on the heat capacity of bosons , evaluated in @xcite , is next - to - leading with respect to the dependence upon the number of bosons .",
    "we see that in the bichromatic traps considered here the heat capacity of the bosons is always larger than that of the fermions by an order of magnitude .    in figure 8",
    "we also show the temperature ratios @xmath12 and @xmath39 . in both single- and double - beam cases ,",
    "it is possible to reach @xmath40 while for the bose gas @xmath41 , with some slight advantages in the crossed - beam configuration .",
    "this means that , with respect to a monochromatic optical dipole trap , a more substantial bose thermal cloud can be sustained while the fermi gas is in a deeper degenerate regime . in the various experiments reaching the fermi",
    "degenerate regime , the estimate of the temperature is usually obtained by fitting the surviving normal bose component .",
    "as the temperature is lowered , the thermal component shrinks in amplitude and size , and the fit to assess its temperature is less accurate .",
    "this effect is mitigated in our bichromatic traps thus allowing for a more precise thermometry .",
    "simple estimates for the minimum degeneracy parameter @xmath42 can be obtained by extending the qualitative discussion reported in the concluding part of section 2 .",
    "below @xmath22 the heat capacity of an ideal bose gas can be written as @xcite @xmath43 while for @xmath44 with a good approximation the heat capacity of a fermi gas is linearly dependent on the temperature ( see also figure 9 ) @xcite @xmath45 by taking the ratio of @xmath46 and @xmath47 and observing that according to eqs .",
    "( [ tf ] ) and ( [ tc ] ) @xmath22 can be expressed in terms of @xmath14 , we obtain the degeneracy parameter @xmath12 as @xmath48 in a conservative scenario we can assume that sympathetic cooling stops when @xmath49 . in this case , for @xmath50 ( as in the case of the @xmath51li-@xmath52li mixture ) we get a minimum value of the degeneracy parameter at the end of the cooling as @xmath53 .",
    "if cooling is still possible for @xmath54 more optimistic estimates can be given .",
    "for instance if cooling stops when @xmath55 , then @xmath56 . by using a larger @xmath57 ratio",
    "the @xmath42 ratio decreases according to ( 20 ) .",
    "it is interesting to note that the dependence is quite sensitive to the frequency ratio , and even minor deviations of this ratio from unity result in an observable effect .",
    "for instance , in a magnetic trap with a @xmath51li-@xmath1na mixture we have @xmath58 and therefore we estimate , for @xmath59 , a value @xmath60 , very close to the minimum value @xmath61 recently obtained by the mit group for a complete evaporation of the bose component @xcite .",
    "superfluidity of the fermi gas is expected below the critical temperature for the onset of atomic cooper pairs @xcite @xmath62 where @xmath63 is the fermi wavevector such that @xmath64 , and @xmath65 is the fermion - fermion elastic scattering length . besides leaving freedom to apply arbitrary homogeneous magnetic fields to enhance the scattering length through tuning to a feshbach resonance @xcite ,",
    "as demonstrated experimentally for fermi gases in @xcite , our bichromatic configuration allows also for an independent increase of @xmath63 due to the higher achievable densities .",
    "the resulting @xmath66 are within the accessible range which corresponds , as seen in figure 8 , to @xmath67 .",
    "the use of optical trapping also leads to a large absolute value of the fermi temperature which can be otherwise obtained by magnetic trapping only with particular geometries maximizing the field gradients @xcite .",
    "finally , the presence of the bose gas could allow for enhancements of the bcs pairing temperature since bosons can mediate phonon - exchange between fermions in a way analogous to ordinary superconductors @xcite .    in general",
    ", with the technique discussed above new mixtures consisting of a normal bose gas ( or a bose condensed gas coexisting with a large bose thermal fraction ) and a degenerate fermi gas are viable .",
    "this contrasts the only situation known so far of a @xmath4he-@xmath5he mixture where degeneracy is reached earlier for the bosonic species .",
    "one of the advantages of using such an anomalous mixture is the possibility to have a well controllable background - a normal bose gas - superimposed to the fermi gas .",
    "this considerably simplifies the possible signatures of a superfluid phase transition in a fermi gas .",
    "for instance it should possible to look at a bulge in the density distribution as predicted in @xcite , since this is obtained admist a smooth , low density and well controllable thermal cloud instead of a higher density and peaked condensate @xcite .",
    "the presence of a superfluid state could be evidenced also by using the same blue - detuned beam as a mechanical stirrer for the fermion cloud . in this case",
    "one should look at a finite threshold for the onset of a dissipative motion or a drag force @xcite .",
    "the presence of the bosonic thermal cloud ( or a condensate component ) gives rise to heating for all stirring velocities ( or above a critical velocity depending upon the condensate density ) of the laser beam @xcite .",
    "however the contribution of the thermal cloud to the heating is very low , and much smaller than the rayleigh scattering in the relevant range of stirring velocities , due to the low density . in order to better discriminate heating coming from the bose component",
    ", one could also take advantage of the proposed manipulation of an ultracold cloud with raman beams @xcite to create a directional critical velocity for the fermi component .",
    "another advantage of a fermi - bose mixture with the latter component in the normal state is the possibility to perform experiments on scattering from microscopic impurities ( such as the one described in @xcite for a bose condensate ) in a much simpler way than using two isotopes .",
    "the presence of the bose cooler in the non - condensed phase allows one to re - examine also species for which bose condensation has been proven difficult to achieve , like cesium ( see however the recent achievement of bec in cs with purely optical means @xcite ) . for instance",
    ", one can reconsider the use of @xmath68cs @xcite which , due to its large mass and small recoil temperature , can be efficiently cooled to very low temperature in a magneto - optical trap",
    ". this would ensure robust initial conditions , in terms of initial number of atoms and initial temperature , to start an efficient evaporative cooling in the optical dipole trap .",
    "even if sympathetic cooling is less efficient due to the large mass ratio with the fermi species @xcite , the same feature is an advantage in terms of ratio between the trapping frequencies even at zero blue - detuned beam intensity or in a purely magnetic trap .",
    "recently , sympathetic cooling of @xmath17li through @xmath68cs has been demonstrated in a far - off resonance optical trap @xcite .",
    "a co@xmath69 laser was used to create the optical potential obtaining , due to the static atomic polarizabilities , a larger energy depth for @xmath68cs . as a consequence the @xmath17li went under simultaneous sympathetic and evaporative cooling .",
    "the problem can be circumvented by using a nd : yag laser as the primary , red - detuned trapping laser , and a deconfining beam with wavelength in between the two atomic transition wavelengths .",
    "furthermore , by relaxing the requirement for using an alkali species ( using for instance ytterbium cooled in an optical dipole trap , see @xcite , and recently brought into the degenerate regime for a bosonic isotope @xcite ) various favourable possibilities can be envisaged .",
    "a novel path to reach deep fermi degeneracy through sympathetic cooling with a bose gas undergoing evaporative cooling in an optical dipole trap has been proposed .",
    "the key feature is that the trapping frequencies , determining the degree of degeneracy of the dilute gases , are made different by properly using a second , deconfining beam .",
    "both single- and crossed - beam configurations have been studied for the four fermi - bose mixtures available with stable alkali fermions . in all cases , a substantial increase of the fermi energy",
    "is expected maintaining at the same time the critical temperature for bose condensation constant or slightly decreased with respect to a single color optical dipole trap .",
    "this decrease of the critical temperature for bose condensation is beneficial for maintaining a precision thermometry in the deep degenerate regime for the fermi gas , and it makes also possible the use of species which can hardly reach bose condensation . with respect to the routes for fermion cooling currently under active investigation ,",
    "our proposal does not necessarily require enhancement of elastic scattering lengths through feshbach resonances , a mechanism often associated to the increase of inelastic processes rates , in competition with hydrodynamic behaviour of the atomic clouds or formation of ultracold molecules @xcite , already present even in nondegenerate conditions @xcite .",
    "with respect to the pure fermi mixtures , it allows instead for a more precise determination of the temperature and , in particular , of the bcs - like phase transition temperature below which onset of superfluidity is expected @xcite .",
    "two technical issues still to be addressed in detail are the degree of control of the laser beams to achieve a common focus , and the intensity ratio stability between confining and deconfining lasers . in a more pessimistic scenario ,",
    "the proposed technique will allow to study the heating mechanisms preventing further cooling of fermions , in a way similar to the one proposed in @xcite , or non - equilibrium phenomena in the ultracold regime analogous to those already explored for the bose condensed gases @xcite , or proposed as an interesting alternative to quasi - equilibrium sympathetic cooling @xcite .",
    "we are indebted to our teacher , colleague , and friend giovanni jona - lasinio for longstanding , pleasant scientific discussions and for having encouraged us in pursuing independent thinking at an early stage of our carrier .",
    "this research was partially supported by cofinanziamento miur protocollo 2002027798 .",
    "r. o. also acknowledges support by the department of energy , under contract no .",
    "in this section we review some elementary thermodynamic properties of noninteracting quantum systems consisting of a finite number of bosonic or fermionic particles trapped into an external potential .",
    "more specifically , we suppose that the particles of mass @xmath70 are confined by the anisotropic harmonic potential @xmath71so that the corresponding single - particle energy levels are given by @xmath72 with @xmath73 .    in the grand - canonical ensemble ,",
    "the average number of particles and the energy of the system are , respectively @xmath74 where @xmath75 is the temperature of the reservoir , @xmath76 the chemical potential , and the upper ( lower ) sign holds for fermions ( bosons ) .",
    "usually , one knows the temperature @xmath75 of the reservoir and the number @xmath77 of particles of the system so that the chemical potential must be evaluated as a function of @xmath77 and @xmath75 .",
    "the value of @xmath78 is determined by solving the nonlinear eq .",
    "( [ n ] ) numerically , e.g. by truncating the series in the r.h.s . at a proper order and controlling the convergence error @xcite .",
    "once @xmath78 is known , the energy @xmath79 is evaluated in an analogous way by truncating the series in the r.h.s . of ( [ e ] ) .",
    "the computation of the series in ( [ n ] ) or ( [ e ] ) requires the evaluation of triply nested sums which may be very time consuming .",
    "a more favourable situation , with double or single series to be computed , is obtained in the presence of symmetries of the external potential .",
    "for instance , in the case of experimental interest in which @xmath80 , eq . (",
    "[ n ] ) becomes @xmath81 where the factor @xmath82 represents the degeneracy of the level at energy @xmath83 with @xmath84 .",
    "the heat capacity of the system at fixed number of particles is @xmath85 where we used the constraint @xmath86 .",
    "the derivatives @xmath87 , @xmath88 , @xmath89 , and @xmath90 are obtained by ( [ n ] ) and ( [ e ] ) and can be evaluated numerically as explained above .",
    "as an example , in figure 9 we show the behavior of @xmath91 as a function of @xmath75 for different values of the number of particles @xmath77 . while in the fermion case",
    "@xmath91 is almost independent of @xmath77 , for bosons the size effect is striking around the critical temperature .",
    "noninteracting bosons ( left panel ) and fermions ( right panel ) in a harmonic trap as a function of the normalized temperatures @xmath39 and @xmath12 .",
    "we have chosen @xmath92 as in a crossed - beam optical dipole trap . ]    finally , we derive the values of the fermi and bose degeneracy temperatures reported in ( [ tf ] ) and ( [ tc ] ) . in the case of fermions , for any value of @xmath77 and @xmath75 we have @xmath93 and the fermi energy is defined as @xmath94 . for @xmath95 , a condition well fulfilled in the experiments , the fermi energy can be evaluated with the approximation @xmath96 where @xmath97 .",
    "therefore , @xmath98 .    in the case of bosons ,",
    "we separate the occupation of the ground state from that of the excited ones : @xmath99where @xmath100 .",
    "when @xmath101 , we have @xmath102 and @xmath103 .",
    "the critical temperature @xmath22 is defined by the condition @xmath104 . for @xmath95 , we have @xmath105where @xmath106 and @xmath107 is the riemann zeta function",
    ". therefore , @xmath108 .",
    "w. ketterle and n. j. van druten , evaporative cooling of trapped atoms , in _ advances in atomic , molecular , and optical physics _ , edited by b. bederson and h. walther , vol .",
    "37 ( academic press , san diego , 1996 ) , p. 181 .",
    "c. c. bradley , c. a. sackett , j. j. tollett , and r. g. hulet , evidence of bose - einstein condensation in an atomic gas with attractive interactions , phys .",
    "* 75 * : 1687 ( 1995 ) ; _ ibidem _ * 79 * : 1170 ( 1997 ) .",
    "o. m. marag , s. a. hopkins , j. arlt , e. hodby , g. hechenblaikner , and c. j. foot , observation of the scissor mode and evidence for superfluidity of a trapped bose - einstein condensed gas , phys .",
    "lett . * 84 * : 2059 ( 2000 ) .                                                      j. l. roberts , n. r. claussen , j. p. burke , jr .",
    ", c. h. greene , e. a. cornell , and c. e. wieman , resonant magnetic field control of elastic scattering in cold @xmath109rb , phys .",
    "* 81 * : 5109 ( 1998 ) .                                    in this experiment",
    "the lowest @xmath12 ratio with dual evaporative cooling of two hyperfine fermion states has been achieved , as @xmath110 . by performing an identical evaporation process on an equally populated mixture of the two hyperfine states",
    "the heat capacities are always well matched .",
    "on the other hand any determination of the temperature for a system made of degenerate fermions is strongly model dependent and drops in sensitivity at the lowest explored temperatures , as witnessed by the relatively large range of values for the estimated @xmath12 ratio .                              in the case of magnetic trapping for alkali species confinement and evaporation",
    "are instead kept separated .",
    "it is then possible to further compress the atomic cloud during rf - induced evaporation , which explains the earlier success of this technique to achieve the bose - degenerate regime .",
    "d. j. larson , j. c. bergquist , j. j. bollinger , w. m. itano , and d. j. wineland , sympathetic cooling of trapped ions : a laser - cooled two - species nonneutral ion plasma , phys .",
    ". lett . * 57 * : 70 ( 1986 ) .",
    "f. schreck , g. ferrari , k. l. corwin , j. cubizolles , l. khaykovich , m .- o .",
    "mewes , and c. salomon , sympathetic cooling of bosonic and fermionic lithium gases towards quantum degeneracy , phys .",
    "a * 64 * : 011402(r ) ( 2001 ) .",
    "e. timmermans , degenerate fermion gas heating by hole creation , phys .",
    "* 87 * : 240403 ( 2001 ) .",
    "this interesting mechanism is based on scattering between atoms in the fermi sea and the energetic background atoms due to the residual pressure in the trapping region , as a sort of auger effect on the trapped fermi gas .",
    "the requirements for the residual background pressure ( @xmath111 torr ) to make this heating source negligible are already well fulfilled by several ultracold atom experimental apparatuses .",
    "however , the mechanism can severely limit sympathetic cooling of fermi atoms due to the collisions experienced with the bose atoms .",
    "i. shvarchuck , ch .",
    "buggle , d. s. petrov , k. dieckmann , m. zielonkowski , m. kemmann , t. tiecke , w. von klitzing , g. v. shlyapnikov , and j. t. m. walraven , bose - einstein condensation into non - equilibrium states studied by condensate focusing , phys .",
    "rev . lett . * 89 * : 270404 ( 2002 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the study of low density , ultracold atomic fermi gases is a promising avenue to understand fermion superfluidity from first principles . </S>",
    "<S> one technique currently used to bring fermi gases in the degenerate regime is sympathetic cooling through a reservoir made of an ultracold bose gas . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss a proposal for trapping and cooling of two - species fermi - bose mixtures into optical dipole traps made from combinations of laser beams having two different wavelengths . in these bichromatic traps it is possible , by a proper choice of the relative laser powers , to selectively trap the two species in such a way that fermions experience a stronger confinement than bosons . as a consequence </S>",
    "<S> , a deep fermi degeneracy can be reached having at the same time a softer degenerate regime for the bose gas . </S>",
    "<S> this leads to an increase in the sympathetic cooling efficiency and allows for higher precision thermometry of the fermi - bose mixture .    </S>",
    "<S> bose and fermi degenerate gases ; superfluidity and superconductivity ; evaporative cooling ; sympathetic cooling ; nonequilibrium statistical mechanics ; bose - fermi mixtures . </S>"
  ]
}