{
  "article_text": [
    "the last decade has witnessed radical changes in the structure of electricity markets world - wide . prior to the 1980s",
    "it was argued convincingly that the electricity industry was a natural monopoly and that strong vertical integration was an obvious and efficient model for the power sector . in the 1990s , technological advances suggested that it was possible to operate power generation and retail supply as competitive market segments @xcite .",
    "the changes that are taking place and the growing complexity of today s energy markets introduce the need for sophisticated tools for the analysis of market structures and modeling of electricity load and price dynamics @xcite",
    ". however , we have to bear in mind that electricity markets are not anywhere near as straightforward as financial or even other commodity markets .",
    "demand and supply are balanced on a knife - edge because electric power can not be economically stored , end user demand is largely weather dependent , and the reliability of the grid is paramount .",
    "recently it has been observed that , contrary to most financial assets @xcite , electricity price processes are mean - reverting @xcite . in the next sections we investigate whether electricity prices and loads in the california power market can be modeled by generalized ornstein - uhlenbeck processes , a special class of mean - reverting diffusion processes .",
    "the analyzed database was provided by the university of california energy institute ( ucei ) @xcite . among others",
    "it contains market clearing prices from the california power exchange ( calpx ) and system - wide loads supplied by california s independent ( transmission ) system operator ( iso ) .",
    "at first we looked at calpx clearing prices  a time series containing system prices of electricity for every hour since april 1st , 1998 , 0:00 until december 31st , 2000 , 24:00 . because the series included",
    "a very strong daily cycle we created a 1006 days long sequence of average daily prices ( as in @xcite ) , see fig . 1 .",
    "the price trajectory suggests that the process does not exhibit a regular annual cycle .",
    "indeed , since june 2000 , california s electricity market has produced extremely high prices and threats of supply shortages .",
    "the difficulties that have appeared are intrinsic to the design of the market , in which demand exhibits virtually no price responsiveness and supply faces strict production constraints @xcite .",
    "it is evident that without taking into consideration regulatory issues , modeling electricity prices in the `` unstable '' california power market is an almost impossible task .",
    "thus , instead of forecasting electricity prices , we tried to tackle the `` simpler '' problem of modeling system loads .",
    "like for electricity prices , the ucei database contains information about the system - wide load for every hour of the period april 1st , 1998 ",
    "december 31st , 2000 . due to a very strong daily cycle",
    "we have created a 1006 days long sequence of daily loads , which is plotted in fig .",
    "apart from the daily cycle , the time series exhibits weekly and annual seasonality . due to the fact that common trend and seasonality removal techniques do not work well when the time series is only a few ( and not complete , in our case ca .",
    "2.8 annual cycles ) cycles long , we restricted the analysis only to two full years of data , i.e. to the period january 1st , 1999  december 31st , 2000 , and applied a new seasonality reduction technique .    the seasonality can be easily observed in the frequency domain by plotting the periodogram , which is a sample analogue of the spectral density . for a vector of observations @xmath0 the periodogram",
    "is defined as @xmath1 , where @xmath2 , @xmath3 $ ] and @xmath4 $ ] denotes the largest integer less then or equal to @xmath5 .",
    "observe that @xmath6 is the squared absolute value of the fourier transform . in order to use fast algorithms for the fourier transform we restricted ourselves to vectors of even length , i.e. @xmath7 . in figure 3",
    "we plotted the periodogram for the system - wide load before and after removal of the weekly and annual cycles .",
    "the periodogram shows well - defined peaks at frequencies corresponding to cycles with period 7 and 365 days .",
    "the smaller peaks close to @xmath8 and 0.4 indicate periods of 3.5 and 2.33 days , respectively .",
    "both peaks are the so called harmonics ( multiples of the 7-day period frequency ) and indicate that the data exhibits a 7-day period but is not sinusoidal .",
    "the weekly period was also observed in lagged autocorrelation plots @xcite .",
    "these cycles have to be removed before further analysis is carried out , since they may influence predictions to a great extent .    to remove the weekly cycle we used the moving average technique @xcite . for the vector of daily loads @xmath9 the trend",
    "was first estimated by applying a moving average filter specially chosen to eliminate the weekly component and to dampen the noise : @xmath10 , where @xmath11 .",
    "next , we estimated the seasonal component . for each @xmath12 , the average @xmath13 of the deviations",
    "@xmath14 was computed .",
    "since these average deviations do not necessarily sum to zero , we estimated the seasonal component @xmath15 as @xmath16 , where @xmath12 and @xmath17 for @xmath18 .",
    "the deseasonalized ( with respect to the 7-day cycle ) data was then defined as @xmath19 for @xmath20 .",
    "finally we removed the trend from the deseasonalized data @xmath21 by taking logarithmic returns , see the middle panel of fig .",
    "4 .    after removing weekly seasonality we were left with the annual cycle . unfortunately , because of the short length of the time series ( only two years ) , the method applied to the 7-day cycle could not be used to remove the annual cycle . to overcome this we introduced a new method which consists of the following : ( i )",
    "calculate a 25-day rolling volatility @xcite for the whole vector ; ( ii ) calculate the average volatility for one year ( i.e. in our case @xmath22 ) ; ( iii ) smooth the volatility by taking a 25-day moving average of @xmath23 ; ( iv ) finally , rescale the returns by dividing them by the smoothed annual volatility .",
    "the obtained time series ( see the bottom panel of fig .",
    "4 ) showed no apparent trend and seasonality ( see the bottom panel of fig .",
    "therefore we treated it as a stationary process . in the next section",
    "we fit the deseasonalized load returns by a generalized ornstein - uhlenbeck type model .",
    "the deseasonalized data sets were modeled by mean - reverting continuous - type processes of the form ( generalized ornstein - uhlenbeck processes ) : @xmath24 unfortunately , since we were unable to remove the annual cycle from the system loads themselves we had to restrict our analysis to models with @xmath25 ( we estimated @xmath26 , but for fractional @xmath27 the process has to be strictly positive and evidently returns do not comply with this restriction ) .",
    "thus we were left with the so - called vasicek model @xcite .",
    "we can calibrate the vasicek model via ordinary linear regression : @xmath28 where @xmath29 and @xmath30 is the standard deviation from the regression .",
    "observe that the above implies that the vasicek model is a continuous version of an ar(1 ) process .",
    "this is the main reason why it performs poorly for our data sets .",
    "the deseasonalized system loads may be an ar ( auto regressive ) process , however , of an order greater then 1 ( see the pacf plots in fig . 5 , which can be used as an estimate of the ar order @xcite ) .",
    "it is worth noting that other diffusions of the form ( [ gou ] ) also have a very short ar dependence structure , which would probably result in poor prediction of electricity prices or loads .    for comparison , in the bottom panel of fig .",
    "5 we plotted actual deseasonalized load returns in december 2000 and the vasicek prediction .",
    "the prediction is a one day forecast with model parameters estimated from the last 365 daily returns .",
    "unfortunately the fit is far from being perfect .",
    "the largest differences occur during christmas ( december 24th26th ) , but this can be improved by incorporating a holiday structure into the model",
    ". however , the prediction for the first 23 days in december is still much worse than the prediction obtained from a simple arma(3,3 ) model @xcite , i.e. the mean absolute deviation from the true values is 0.565 compared to 0.355 for the arma forecast .    even though continuous - time models have certain advantages ( like analytic tractability , a developed theory of pricing derivatives , etc .",
    "@xcite ) over discrete models , further research will be in the direction of discrete time series models which offer a much better fit to market data @xcite .    99 international chamber of commerce , liberalization and privatization of the energy sector , paris ,",
    "july 1998 .",
    "masson , competitive electricity markets around the world : approaches to price risk management , in @xcite , 1999 . v. kaminski , ed .",
    ", managing energy price risk , 2nd . ed . , risk books , london , 1999 .",
    "r. bjorgan , c .- c .",
    "liu , j. lawarree , ieee trans .",
    "power systems 14 ( 1999 ) 1285 .",
    "bouchaud , m. potters , theory of financial risk , ( in french ) , alea - saclay , eyrolles , paris , 1997 .",
    "_ english edition _ : cambridge university press , 2000 .",
    "a. weron , r. weron , financial engineering : derivatives pricing , computer simulations , market statistics , ( in polish ) , wnt , warsaw , 1998 .",
    "mantegna , h.e .",
    "stanley , an introduction to econophysics : correlations and complexity in finance , cambridge university press , cambridge , 1999 .",
    "d. pilipovic , energy risk : valuing and managing energy derivatives , mcgraw - hill , new york , 1998 .",
    "r. weron , physica a 285 ( 2000 ) 127 .",
    "r. weron , b. przybyowicz , physica a 283 ( 2000 ) 462 .",
    "see http://www.ucei.org .",
    "s. borenstein , the trouble with electricity markets ( and some solutions ) , power working paper pwp-081 , ucei , see @xcite .",
    "brockwell , r.a .",
    "davis , introduction to time series and forecasting , springer - verlag , new york , 1996 .",
    "v. kaminski , the challenge of pricing and risk managing electricity derivatives , in `` the us power market '' , risk books , london , 1997 .",
    "o. vasicek , j. financial economics 5 ( 1977 ) 177 .",
    "p. wilmott , derivatives , wiley , chichester , 2000 .",
    "j. nowicka - zagrajek , r. weron , in preparation ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this paper we address the issue of modeling electricity loads and prices with diffusion processes . </S>",
    "<S> more specifically , we study models which belong to the class of generalized ornstein - uhlenbeck processes . after comparing properties of simulated paths with those of deseasonalized data from the california power market and performing out - of - sample forecasts we conclude that , despite certain advantages , the analyzed continuous - time processes are not adequate models of electricity load and price dynamics .    </S>",
    "<S> -5 mm    to be published in physica a ( 2001 ) : proceedings of the nato arw    * modeling electricity loads in california : + a continuous - time approach *    rafa weron    hugo steinhaus center for stochastic methods , + wrocaw university of technology , 50 - 370 wrocaw , poland    b. kozowska , j. nowicka - zagrajek    institute of mathematics , + wrocaw university of technology , 50 - 370 wrocaw , poland    * keywords : * econophysics , electricity load , ornstein - uhlenbeck process , mean - reversion , seasonality    * pacs : * 05.45.tp , 89.30.+f , 89.90.+n </S>"
  ]
}