{
  "article_text": [
    "nonequilibrium interfaces that display interesting scaling properties are quite common in physical ( crystal growth , fluid penetration into porous media , _ etc . _ ) , chemical ( reaction fronts ) , as well as biological ( growing bacterial colonies ) systems .",
    "the dynamics of these systems have long been thought to be generically described by the kardar - parisi - zhang ( kpz ) equation @xcite , or some other equation of motion in the same universality class @xcite . in two space dimensions in particular ( one - dimensional interfaces ) when exact solutions are available , the scaling properties of the kpz equation are well understood .",
    "the same is not , however , true for the experimental observations of scaling of interfaces .",
    "typically one has found a roughening exponent clearly higher than that for the kpz equation @xcite .",
    "various explanations have been suggested as for why the kpz scaling has not generally been found , and most of the time correlated and/or non - gaussian noise have been the prime suspects @xcite .",
    "recent experiments on slow - combustion fronts propagating in paper @xcite , and on flux fronts penetrating a high-@xmath0 thin - film superconductor @xcite , have provided new insight into this problem @xcite .",
    "it indeed appears that short - range - correlated noise , quenched and dynamical , with possibly at the same time a non - gaussian amplitude distribution for small time differences , induce an additional time and an additional length scale , beyond which kpz scaling can only be observed .",
    "despite these recent advances , it would still be worth while to demonstrate the existence of the nonlinear term , as introduced by kardar , parisi and zhang @xcite , and essential for the kpz dynamics , directly from the observed fronts .",
    "this would in essence prove that kpz type of dynamics , including possibly effects of nontrivial noise , can indeed be expected to be generic for nonequilibrium interfaces .",
    "one can demonstrate the presence of this term indirectly by using , _",
    "e.g. _ , inverse schemes able to infer the ( partial ) differential equation that governs the observed stochastic evolution of interfaces @xcite , but there is also a way to produce a directly observable effect on the shape of the interface , due to this term .    this method for observing the operation of the nonlinear term was suggested already for some while ago by wolf and tang @xcite .",
    "they considered the effect of columnar defects , columnar in two space dimensions on which case we concentrate here , and found that there is a clear asymmetry between the shapes of the fronts that propagate in the presence of an advancing ( excess driving ) and a retarding ( reduced driving ) defect .",
    "this asymmetry is a direct consequence of the nonlinear term in the kpz equation . for a positive coefficient in this term , applicable to slow - combustion fronts",
    ", the noise - averaged front should be faceted with a forward - pointing triangular shape around an advancing defect , with a height proportional asymptotically to the width of the sample in the case of a defect in the middle of the sample , or to the basic period in the case of periodic boundary conditions . in the case of a retarding defect",
    ", the shape of the front should not be faceted , and the ( negative ) height of the deformation in the profile should be proportional , according to this mean - field theory , to the logarithm of the basic period . despite its apparent simplicity , this kind of experiment has never been performed .",
    "as is well known , the bcsos interface model in which the nearest - neighbor heights are restricted to differ only by @xmath1 , displays kpz behaviour , and is on the other hand equivalent to a driven flow of particles ( hopping rate @xmath2 ) with hard - core repulsive interactions ( asep ) @xcite .",
    "a columnar defect in an interface model corresponds to a fixed slow or fast bond ( hopping rate @xmath3 with @xmath4 or @xmath5 , respectively ) in the asep model .",
    "a faceted interface corresponds to a traffic jam of infinite length in the thermodynamic limit behind the slow bond .",
    "another related question is the detailed shape of the density / interface profile .",
    "the mean - field theory of @xcite predicts an infinite queue for all @xmath4 and no queue ( a logarithmic decay of the density profile ) for @xmath5 , _ i.e. _ , @xmath6 .",
    "janowsky and lebowitz @xcite considered the totally asymmetric tasep model with a slow bond , but concentrated mainly on the shock wave fluctuations far away from the slow bond , and apparently did not consider the faceting / queueing transition ( they had a phase diagram with @xmath7 ) .",
    "the same model was also considered by kolomeisky @xcite , but he did not consider the faceting / queueing transition either .    kandel and mukamel considered a somewhat different model , which is supposed to be in the same universality class , and proposed @xcite that the faceting / queueing transition should take place at an @xmath8 .",
    "their simulation data were not , however , conclusive .    in slow - combustion experiments the detailed shape of the front profile is difficult to determine , and",
    "thereby also the disappearance of faceting .",
    "faceting is however related to increased front speed , also in the thermodynamic limit , and this is an easier observable . for possible non - faceted fronts , which would correspond to @xmath9 , an increased front speed",
    "would only be a finite - size effect , as also the decreased front speed in the case of a retarding defect corresponding to @xmath5 .",
    "notice that the effective nonlinear term is positive in the slow - combustion experiments , while it is negative in the asep models .",
    "therefore , an advancing ( retarding ) columnar defect in the first case corresponds to a slow ( fast ) bond in the latter case .",
    "the equipment we use in slow - combustion experiments has been described elsewhere @xcite , so it suffices to say here that samples were burned in a chamber with controllable conditions and that the video signal of propagating fronts was compressed and stored on - line on a computer .",
    "the spatial resolution of the set up was @xmath10 m , and the time resolution was 0.1 s. for the samples we used the lens - paper grade ( whatman ) we have used also previously @xcite .",
    "lens paper was now used to speed up the experiments .    as slow - combustion fronts do not propagate in paper without adding an oxygen source for maintaining the chemical reaction involved",
    ", we added as before @xcite a small amount of potassium nitrate in the samples .",
    "this method also allows for a relatively easy way to produce advancing and retarding columnar defects . by using masks it is straightforward to produce a narrow ( vertical ) stripe with a smaller or an additional amount of potassium nitrate .",
    "the average concentration of potassium nitrate determines the average speed of the fronts , so it serves as the control parameter of the problem .",
    "it is , however , quite difficult to accurately regulate the amount of potassium nitrate absorbed in the sample .",
    "this means that it is difficult to produce samples with exactly the same base concentration , and the same concentration difference between the base paper and the columnar defect .",
    "therefore , the statistics we get for any fixed difference in the concentration is not quite as good as we would hope .",
    "they are adequate for the main features of the fronts but not for such details as , _",
    "e.g. _ , accurate forms of the front profiles .",
    "they are also good enough for a quantitative analysis of changes in the front speed .",
    "the samples were typically 20 cm ( width ) by 40 cm , and the columnar defect ( vertical stripe ) in the middle of the sample was 1.0 cm wide .",
    "the defect can not in our case be too narrow as fluctuations in the slow - combustion process would then tend to wipe out its effect . too wide a stripe would on the other hand cause effects due to its nonzero width , which are unwarranted .",
    "we also used simulations with a discretized kpz equation to check that the ratio 1 cm to 20 cm should not cause additional effects @xcite .",
    "the length of the samples was in most cases adequate for achieving stationary behavior , and only those results are used here where saturation of the profile was evident .",
    "when analyzing the front profiles , the stripe was removed from the data , as well as about 6 mm from both boundaries of the samples .",
    "as the system is symmetric across the stripe in the middle , the observed front profiles were also symmetrized for better statistics .",
    "as reported already before @xcite , fluctuations in the slow - combustion fronts in paper are noticeable . for extreme values of the potassium - nitrate concentration there appear problems with pinning ( low concentration ) or local avalanche type of bursts ( high concentration ) in the fronts .",
    "also , very small values of the concentration difference between the base paper and the defect stripe could not be used , as fluctuations then completely masked the effect of the defect .",
    "these problems were noticeable for retarding defects in particular . in the data reported here ,",
    "concentration varied between 0.265 and 0.61 gm@xmath11 in the base paper , between 0.1 and 1.05 gm@xmath11 in the stripe , and the concentration difference varied between 0.06 and 0.49 gm@xmath11 on the positive side ( 25 burns ) , and @xmath120.197 and @xmath120.478 gm@xmath11 on the negative side ( 19 burns ) . because of the practical restrictions and fluctuation effects , the number of successful burns was relatively small .",
    "we will need the dependence on potassium - nitrate concentration of the front velocity below so we consider it first .",
    "it is useful to begin with a discussion of the accuracy of the front - velocity determination .",
    "lens paper is thin so that variations in its mass density and dynamical effects such as ( possibly turbulent ) convection around the combustion front are both expected to give a contribution to the effective noise .",
    "noise amplitude is consequently relatively large @xcite , and therefore also velocity distribution of a propagating front can be expected to be broad .",
    "we show in fig .",
    "1 that distribution for two different values of the potassium - nitrate concentration .",
    "( full line ) , and 0.536 gm@xmath11 ( dashed line ) .",
    "velocities are determined for a time difference of 2 s. ]    it is evident from this figure that , even though the average velocities in these two cases are relatively well separated and easily distinguishable , the velocity distributions have a big overlap . together with the limited statistics for any fixed value for ( the difference in ) the potassium - nitrate concentration , these broad distributions mean that some variation can be expected to occur in the measured average velocities ( velocity differences ) of the fronts .    in the presence of a columnar defect , we should ,",
    "_ e.g. _ , determine the change in the average front speed arising from the defect .",
    "this can be accomplished by analyzing separately the undeformed flat part of the fronts , and the part of the front profile affected by the presence of the defect .",
    "determination of the average speed of the flat fronts is done in the transient ( wrt profile shape ) phase in which the ( growing ) width of the deformed profile is still less than the width of the sample . in this phase the flat part of the front is already in the saturated regime with constant average velocity .",
    "the average speed of the deformed profile is determined in a later phase in which the width of the deformed part of the profile essentially coincides with the sample width .",
    "we have also determined the average front velocity for 122 individual burns for a fairly broad interval in the potassium - nitrate concentration , and these data are shown in fig .",
    "2 together with a linear fit to the measured points .        the dependence on potassium - nitrate concentration of the front velocity is not expected to be linear especially near the pinning limit , but , for the concentration range shown here , it is well approximated by a linear behavior , which is also more convenient for the subsequent analysis .",
    "we find that , with a linear fit to the data , the front velocity @xmath13 is given on the average by    @xmath14    where @xmath15 is the potassium - nitrate concentration , and @xmath13 is in units mms@xmath16 when @xmath15 is expressed in gm@xmath11 .    before showing the measured front profiles in the presence of a columnar defect ,",
    "let us consider , in order to make later comparisons more transparent , what is expected from the mean - field solution as reported in ref .",
    "@xcite .",
    "we assume that the time evolution of the fronts @xmath17 is governed by the kpz equation @xmath18 , where @xmath19 describes white noise with delta - function correlations in space and time , and the driving term contains the idealized defect as a delta - function contribution , @xmath20 . for simplicity we assume here as in @xcite periodic boundary conditions .",
    "if we average over noise in the kpz equation , and denote @xmath21 , we find that    @xmath22    in which @xmath23 denotes the spatial derivative of @xmath24 , and @xmath25 describes fluctuations around the noise - averaged profile .",
    "a corresponding equation can be derived for @xmath26 @xcite .    as @xmath26 should not depend ( locally ) on @xmath27 nor on @xmath28 , and only local interdependence between @xmath29 and the noise averaged profile",
    "can be assumed to appear , one would then expect @xcite that in leading order @xmath30 , with @xmath31 and @xmath32 some constants .",
    "this assumption will make eq .",
    "( [ kpzh ] ) closed so that it can be solved without further reference to the fluctuations .",
    "the delta - function contribution in the driving term will induce cusps in @xmath33 at @xmath34 , and the solution of eq .",
    "( [ kpzh ] ) is therefore equivalent to solving the equation    @xmath35    in the interval @xmath36 , with boundary conditions @xmath37 and @xmath38 .",
    "here we have defined the effective ( renormalized ) parameters @xmath39 and @xmath40 , and the magnitude of the slope of the front at the defects is @xmath41 .",
    "equation ( [ bur ] ) is the well - known burgers equation @xcite which can be solved in closed form in one space dimensions .",
    "it is useful to express it first in dimensionless form , which can be achieved with transformations @xmath42 , with @xmath43 the internal length scale of the system .",
    "we look for a stationary solution of this equation in the form @xmath44 , where @xmath45 is the sign of @xmath46 , and we have already used the hopf transformation in the spatial part of the ansatz to remove the nonlinearity from the equation for @xmath47 . we find that @xcite    @xmath48    for advancing defects ( @xmath49 ) , and    @xmath50    for retarding defects ( @xmath51 ) . here",
    "@xmath52 is the dimensionless width of the system , and @xmath53 .",
    "asymptotically , for @xmath54 ( and @xmath55 ) , the profile around an advancing defect is a forward - pointing triangle with sides that have slopes @xmath56 , and with height @xmath57 .",
    "the asymptotic profile around a retarding defect is given by @xmath58 so that @xmath59 .",
    "the magnitude of @xmath60 thus grows linearly with @xmath61 ( or @xmath62 ) while that of @xmath63 only grows logarithmically with @xmath61 ( or @xmath62 ) .",
    "this asymmetry is a direct consequence of the nonlinear term that enhances the deformation in the former case but reduces it in the latter case .      in the above mean - field theory , @xmath64 is the difference between the front velocity ( driving ) inside the defect and outside the defect . in the slow - combustion experiments",
    "this velocity difference is regulated by the potassium - nitrate concentration so that now @xmath65 , where the numerical factor comes from the linear fit given by eq .",
    "( [ fit ] ) , and @xmath66 is the concentration difference .",
    "this means that the scaling factor @xmath62 is given by @xmath67 . without as yet knowing the actual value of @xmath68 needed for evaluating the size of @xmath62 and @xmath69 , reasonable estimates , based on the results from the inverse method solution for the effective equation of motion @xcite ,",
    "indicate that the slow - combustion fronts are not necessarily in the strictly asymptotic regime : we expect that @xmath70 but not by a very big margin .",
    "notice that the size of @xmath71 is now regulated by @xmath72 as the width @xmath61 of the samples is held fixed . despite the achievable values of @xmath71",
    ", we can expect to clearly see the asymmetry in the heights of the front profiles for different signs of the concentration difference . in fig .",
    "3 we show the averaged ( and symmetrized ) front profiles for @xmath73 .",
    "( upper and lower profile , respectively ) . ]",
    "it is indeed evident that there is a clear difference in the heights of the front profiles around advancing and retarding defects . by following the transient time evolution of the fronts",
    ", we could also see a clear difference there . for @xmath74 , when a triangular deformation was formed after a while around the central stripe , its height and base length grew with a more or less constant velocity until the base length reached the width of the sample , while the slopes of the sides of this triangle remained roughly constant . for @xmath75 on the other hand , the height of the deformation saturated much faster even though it also grew more or less linearly in time in the beginning , and the base length of the deformation reached the sample width at the same time .",
    "this transient behavior will be analyzed in more detail below .",
    "the qualitative behavior for the @xmath74 case is clearly visible in fig .",
    "4 which shows the successive fronts with a time difference of 0.5 s for @xmath76 .    .",
    "also marked are the stripe with the excess concentration of potassium nitrate , the fronts between which the average profile is determined ( thick lines ) , the height of the final profile , and the average shape of the profile . ]    a more quantitative comparison between the mean - field solution for the noise averaged front and the observed slow - combustion fronts can also be made . for this purpose",
    "we have found it convenient to consider instead of the profile heights @xmath77 the average slopes of the left - hand ( lh ) sides of the profiles ( _ c.f . _",
    "3 ) , @xmath78 .",
    "as we do not expect to be in the strictly asymptotic regime , we have used the full transcendental equations for q in eqs .",
    "( [ pos ] ) and ( [ neg ] ) above when fitting the observed @xmath79 with the mean - field result .",
    "the average slopes , as functions of concentration difference @xmath72 , will now depend on two parameters , @xmath80 and @xmath81 , which are used to fit the measured slopes . from the fitted values for these parameters",
    "we can then estimate the coefficients @xmath82 and @xmath68 for this system .",
    "we show in fig .",
    "5 the experimentally determined values for @xmath83 and @xmath84 together with the fit by the mean - field solution using eqs . ( [ pos ] ) and ( [ neg ] ) .    ) and ( [ neg ] ) . ]    fits to the data were not very sensitive to the actual value of parameter @xmath85 so that the correlation coefficient did not change much even if @xmath85 was changed in a relatively large interval . if the @xmath74 and @xmath75 data were fitted separately without any restrictions on the two parameters , these fits had also a tendency to produce somewhat different values for the two cases . as the signal - to - noise ratio is better for the @xmath74 data , we fixed @xmath85 such that it was between the two separately fitted values but closer to the one from the unrestricted two - parameter fit to the @xmath74 data , and in the interval within which the quality of this fit was essentially unchanged : @xmath86 .",
    "thereafter an unrestricted one - parameter fit to the whole data was used to find the value for @xmath87 . in this way we found that @xmath88 .",
    "the fitted values for parameters @xmath85 and @xmath87 allow now an estimation of two physical parameters , the renormalized diffusion coefficient @xmath68 and the coefficient of the nonlinear term , @xmath82 .",
    "we thus find that @xmath89 mm@xmath90s@xmath16 , and @xmath91 mms@xmath16 . in the estimate for @xmath68 we used an effective sample width @xmath92 mm , a bit smaller than the width 202 mm of the actual sample , due to the width of the defect stripe and to allowing for some boundary effects . by other methods",
    "we have found previously that @xmath93 mms@xmath16 @xcite , so that the value found here is fairly close to these previous estimates .    in view of the unavoidable fluctuations in the measured averaged slopes , we find the fits to the measured points by the mean - field solution to be quite reasonable .      as already discussed above , the mean - field solution predicts a faceting or queueing transition at @xmath94 . above this transition ( @xmath74 )",
    ", the average front velocity is increased due to the presence of an advancing columnar defect , and below this transition the change in front velocity should vanish for large enough @xmath71 . for negative @xmath72 the change in velocity is negative , and should decrease in magnitude with increasing @xmath95 . according to kandel and mukamel @xcite , this transition should appear at a @xmath96 .",
    "as the numerical data of @xcite is not decisive , we have done @xcite simulations on a totally asymmetric asep model with a fixed defect bond with hopping rate @xmath3 in the middle of the system , while the hopping rate at the other bonds was @xmath2 .",
    "open boundary conditions were imposed such that the hopping - in rate at the left boundary was @xmath97 , and the hopping - out rate at the right boundary was @xmath98 . in what follows",
    "we only consider the case @xmath99 .",
    "this model shows @xcite a queueing transition at @xmath100 .",
    "in addition , the density profile displays a qualitatively similar asymmetry between the slow and fast defect - bond cases as the mean - field solution for the kpz fronts between the advancing and retarding columnar - defect cases . in the thermodynamic limit the deformation stays non - zero only in the faceted phase above the transition .",
    "the density profiles in both the faceted and non - faceted phases also display interesting power - law tails .",
    "as the detailed shapes of the front profiles are difficult to determine experimentally , we only compare the results for the dependence of the average front velocity @xmath101 ( current @xmath102 ) on the potassium nitrate concentration @xmath15 ( hopping rate @xmath2 ) . in this comparison dimensionless variables are used , @xmath103 for the change in the front velocity , and similarly for the current but for reversed sign as an advancing defect corresponds to a slow bond , @xmath104 for the potassium - nitrate concentration difference , and @xmath105 for the hopping - rate difference .",
    "differences are all determined between the value with or at the defect and the value elsewhere or without the defect . in this way",
    "no fitting is involved in the comparison .",
    "obviously the actual driving force is not known exactly for the slow - combustion fronts , but the observed linear dependence well above the pinning transition between the potassium - nitrate concentration and the front velocity suggests that the dimensionless difference can be reliably used in this kind of comparison .",
    "( @xmath106 ) , and scaled current change in the totally asymmetric asep model due to a defect bond as a function of @xmath107 ( @xmath108 ) .",
    "the full line connects the latter data points . ]",
    "this comparison of the slow - combustion experiment and the totally asymmetric asep model results is shown in fig .",
    "it is evident from this figure that agreement between the two results is reasonable as there is no fitting involved .",
    "there are still fairly large fluctuations in the experimental data , and it is not possible to have results for very small values of @xmath72 as fluctuations tend to wipe out the whole effect , and the system is then not in the asymptotic regime. these results indicate , however , that there indeed is a faceting ( queueing ) transition at a non - zero @xmath109 ( @xmath110 , _",
    "i.e. _ , @xmath111 ) .",
    "in addition to the stationary profiles analyzed above , it is also possible , as already indicated , to study the transient profiles , _",
    "i.e. _ , how the defect - induced profiles grow at the initial phases of the process . the transient behavior of the profile around an advancing column is particularly simple .",
    "the burgers equation eq .",
    "( [ bur ] ) admits in this case a solution of exactly the same shape as the stationary solution , which grows linearly in time until its baseline reaches the width of the sample .",
    "such a self - similar transient does not exist in the case of negative @xmath72 , so analytical results for transient behavior are then difficult to find . in the non - asymptotic regime @xmath112 one can however show that the situation is symmetric , @xmath113 .",
    "one would thus expect that , at least in our case when @xmath71 is not particularly large , the height @xmath114 would also grow initially ( at least nearly ) linearly in time .",
    "the expected transient behavior for @xmath74 is already ( qualitatively ) evident from fig .",
    "more quantitatively the transient time evolution of the height of the deformed profile can be analyzed , _",
    "e_.g . , by plotting @xmath115 against @xmath116 . for a linear time evolution",
    "the former value is twice the latter . in fig .",
    "7 we show this plot , averaged over 32 individual burns , including both signs of @xmath72 .     as a function of @xmath117 averaged over 32 burns .",
    "positive values correspond to @xmath74 and negative values to @xmath75 .",
    "the full line is @xmath118 . ]",
    "the initial transient behavior is approximately linear in time for both cases .",
    "for @xmath74 the trend continues nearly linear until saturation sets in when the width of the profile equals the width of the sample .",
    "for @xmath75 the behavior is quite similar except that saturation takes place earlier .",
    "there is also some indication that , in this case , the growth of @xmath119 becomes nonlinear in time already before saturation , but the quality of the data does not allow for a decisive conclusion on this .",
    "the difference in the amplitude ( height ) , and perhaps not so clearly in the shape , of the front in the slow - combustion experiments , caused by a columnar defect with excess or reduced driving , respectively , was clearly demonstrated .",
    "the behavior of the height of the deformed profile , and the qualitative shape of the profile in the case of excess driving , were also reasonably well explained by the mean - field solution of ref .",
    "the asymptotic shape of the profile in the case of negative velocity difference could not be unequivocally determined as fluctuations are more important in this case of relatively small amplitude of the profile .",
    "the reduced , in comparison with the case of excess driving , height of the profile was very evident . in the case of positive velocity difference the transient behavior of the profile , _",
    "i.e. _ , the growth of the defect induced deformation in the profile shape , could as well be explained by the mean - field solution . for negative velocity difference a nearly linear behavior in time was observed initially , followed perhaps by a regime of nonlinear time evolution before saturation .",
    "fitting the average height ( or equivalently the average slopes of the sides ) of the profile with the mean - field solutions provided us with estimates for the effective diffusion constant @xmath68 and the coefficient of the nonlinear term , @xmath82 .",
    "the latter parameter can also be determined from the slope dependence of the local front velocity @xcite , or by applying an inverse method on the observed fronts @xcite .",
    "the value found here for @xmath82 is fairly close to these previous estimates , and we find this level of agreement very reasonable in view of the rather large fluctuations in the present data .",
    "one should , however , notice that the @xmath82 measured for a sample depends on the potassium - nitrate concentration in that sample , and that the average potassium - nitrate concentration was not the same in the samples used in the experiments .",
    "we did not take this variation into account , as it can be assumed to give a small effect in comparison with the other experimental uncertainties , so that the present estimate represents an average value .    the effective diffusion coefficient @xmath68 contains , in addition to the bare diffusion coefficient of the original kpz equation , an unknown renormalization factor due to noise - induced fluctuations around the average front profile .",
    "we can not thus get an estimate for the bare diffusion coefficient @xmath120 , which can be estimated by other means @xcite . however",
    ", we can conclude that the noise - induced renormalization of @xmath68 appears to be sizable .",
    "the position and nature of the faceting ( queueing ) transition in interfaces affected by a columnar defect ( in the asep model by a defected bond ) , has been a long - standing problem .",
    "the agreement found here between slow - combustion experiments with a columnar defect and the related tasep model results , indicates that this transition is indeed at a non - zero value of the respective control parameter .",
    "no scaling properties of the transition could be analyzed at this stage , but the tasep model results also indicate that this transition is continuous .",
    "it remains an experimental challenge to analyze this transition in more detail .",
    "j. maunuksela , m. myllys , o .- p .",
    "khknen , j. timonen , n. provatas , m. j. alava , and t. ala - nissila , _ phys .",
    "lett . _ * 79 * , 1515 ( 1997 ) ; m. myllys , j. maunuksela , m. j. alava , t. ala - nissila , and j. timonen , _ ibid _ * 84 * , 1946 ( 2000 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report experimental results for the behavior of slow - combustion fronts in the presence of a columnar defect with excess or reduced driving , and compare them with those of mean - field theory . </S>",
    "<S> we also compare them with simulation results for an analogous problem of driven flow of particles with hard - core repulsion ( asep ) and a single defect bond with a different hopping probability . </S>",
    "<S> the difference in the shape of the front profiles for excess vs. reduced driving in the defect , clearly demonstrates the existence of a kpz - type of nonlinear term in the effective evolution equation for the slow - combustion fronts . </S>",
    "<S> we also find that slow - combustion fronts display a faceted form for large enough excess driving , and that there is a corresponding increase then in the average front speed . </S>",
    "<S> this increase in the average front speed disappears at a non - zero excess driving in agreement with the simulated behavior of the asep model . </S>"
  ]
}