{
  "article_text": [
    "the relentless growth of the internet goes along with a wide range of internetworking problems related to routing protocols , resource allowances , and physical connectivity plans .",
    "the study and optimization of algorithms and policies related to such problems rely heavily on theoretical analysis and simulations that use model abstractions of the actual internet . on the other hand , in order to extract the maximum benefit from these studies , it is necessary to work with reliable internet topology generators .",
    "the basic priority at this respect is to best define the topology to use for the network being simulated .",
    "this implies the characterization of how routers , hosts , and physical links interconnect with each other in shaping the actual internet .    in the last years",
    ", research groups started to deploy technologies and infrastructures in order to obtain a more detailed picture of the internet .",
    "several studies , aimed at tracking and visualizing the internet large scale topology and/or performance , are leading to internet mapping projects at different resolution scales .",
    "these projects typically collect data on internet elements ( routers , domains ) and the connections among them ( physical links , peer connections ) , in order to create a graph - like representation of large parts of the internet in which the nodes represent those elements and the links represent the respective connections .",
    "mapping projects focus essentially on two levels of topological description .",
    "first , by inferring router adjacencies it has been possible to measure the internet router ( ir ) level topology .",
    "the second measured topology works at the autonomous system ( as ) level and the connectivity obtained from as routing path information .",
    "although these two representations are related , it is clear that they describe the internet at rather different scales .",
    "in fact , each as groups a generally large number of routers , and therefore the as maps are in some sense a coarse - grained view of the ir maps .",
    "internet maps exhibit an extremely large degree of heterogeneity and the use of statistical tools becomes mandatory to provide a proper mathematical characterization of this system .",
    "statistical analysis of the internet maps fabric have pointed out , to the surprise of many researchers , a very complex connectivity pattern with fluctuations extending over several orders of magnitude @xcite . in particular , it has been observed a power - law behavior in metrics and statistical distributions of internet maps at different levels @xcite . this evidence makes the internet an example of the so - called _ scale - free _",
    "networks @xcite and uncover a peculiar structure that can not be satisfactorily modeled with traditional topology generators .",
    "previous internet topology generators , based in the classical erds and rnyi random graph model @xcite or in hierarchical models , yielded an exponentially bounded connectivity pattern , with very small fluctuations and in clear disagreement with the recent empirical findings . a theoretical framework for the origin of scale - free graphs has been put forward by barabsi and albert @xcite by devising a novel class of dynamical growing networks . following these ideas ,",
    "several internet topology generators yielding power - law distributions have been subsequently proposed @xcite .",
    "data gathering projects @xcite are progressively making available larger as and ir level maps which are susceptible of more accurate statistical analysis and raise new and challenging questions about the internet topology .",
    "for instance , statistical distributions show deviations from the pure power - law behavior and it is important to understand to which extent the internet can be considered a scale - free graph . the way these scaling anomalies  usually signaled by the presence of cut - offs in the corresponding statistical distributions ",
    "are related to the internet finite size and physical constraints is a capital issue in the characterization of the internet and in the understanding of the dynamics underlying its growth .",
    "a further important issue concerns the fact that the internet is organized on different hierarchical levels , with a set of backbone links carrying the traffic between local area providers .",
    "this structure is reflected in a hierarchical arrangement of administrative domains and in a different usage of links and connectivity of nodes .",
    "the interplay between the scale - free nature and the hierarchical properties of the internet is still unclear , and it is an important task to find metrics that can exploit and characterize hierarchical features on the as and ir level . finally , although one would expect internet as and ir level maps to exhibit similar scale - free properties , the different resolution in both kinds of maps might lead to a diversity of metrics properties .    in this paper",
    "we present a detailed statistical analysis of large as and ir level maps @xcite .",
    "we study the scale - free properties of these maps , focusing on the degree and betweenness distributions . while scale - free properties are confirmed for maps at both levels ,",
    "ir level maps show also the presence of an exponential cut - off , that can be related to constraints acting on the physical connectivity and load of routers .",
    "power - law distributions with a cut - off are a general feature of scale - free phenomena in real finite systems and we discuss their origin in the framework of growing networks . at the as level we confirm the presence of a strong scale - free character for the large - scale degree and betweenness distributions .",
    "we also discuss that deviations from the pure power - law behavior found in recent maps @xcite at intermediate connectivities has a marginal impact on the resilience and information spreading properties of the internet @xcite .",
    "furthermore , we propose two metrics based on the connectivity and the clustering correlation functions , that appear to sharply characterize the hierarchical properties of internet maps . in particular , these metrics clearly distinguish between the as and ir levels , which show a very different behavior at this respect . while ir level maps appear to possess almost no hierarchical structure , as maps fully exploit the hierarchy of domains around which the internet revolves .",
    "the differences highlighted between the two levels might be very important in the developing of faithful internet topology generators .",
    "the testing of internet protocols working at different levels might need of topology generators accounting for the different properties observed .",
    "hierarchical features are also important to scrutinize theoretical models proposing new dynamical growth mechanisms for the internet as a whole .",
    "nowadays the internet can be partitioned in autonomously administered domains which vary in size , geographical extent , and function .",
    "each domain may exercise traffic restrictions or preferences , and handle internal traffic according to particular autonomous policies .",
    "this fact has stimulated the separation of the inter - domain routing from the intra - domain routing , and the introduction of the autonomous systems number ( asn ) .",
    "each as refers to one single administrative domain of the internet . within each",
    "as , an interior gateway protocol is used for routing purposes . between ass ,",
    "an exterior gateway protocol provides the inter - domain routing system .",
    "the border gateway protocol ( bgp ) is the most widely used inter - domain protocol . in particular",
    ", it assigns a 16-bit asn to identify , and refer to , each as .",
    "the internet is usually portrayed as an undirected graph .",
    "depending on the meaning assigned to the nodes and links of the associated graph , we can obtain different levels of representation , each one corresponding to a different degree of coarse - graining respect to the physical internet .    _ internet router level _ :",
    "in the ir level maps , nodes represents the routers , while links represent the physical connections among them . in general , all mapping efforts at the ir level are based on computing router adjacencies from _ traceroute _ sequences sent to a list of networks in the internet .",
    "the traceroute command performed from a single source provides a spanning tree from that source to every other ( reachable ) node in the network . by merging the information obtained from different sources it is possible to construct ir level maps of different portions of the internet . in order to catch all the various cross - links , however ,",
    "a large number of source probes is needed .",
    "in addition , the instability of paths between routers and other technical problems  such as multiple alias interfaces  make the mapping a very difficult task @xcite .",
    "these difficulties have been diversely tackled by the different internet mapping projects : the lucent project at bell labs @xcite , the cooperative association for internet data analysis @xcite , and the scan project at the information sciences institute @xcite , that develop methods to obtain partial maps from a single source .    _",
    "autonomous system level _ : in the as level graphs each node represents an as , while each link between two nodes represents the existence of a bgp peer connection among the corresponding ass .",
    "it is important to stress that each as groups many routers together and the traffic carried by a link is the aggregation of all the individual end - host flows between the corresponding ass .",
    "the as map can be constructed by looking at the bgp routing tables .",
    "in fact , the bgp routing tables of each as contains a spanning tree from that node to every other ( reachable ) as . we can then try to reconstruct the complete as map by merging the connectivity information coming from a certain fraction of these spanning trees .",
    "this method has been actually used by the national laboratory for applied network research ( nlanr ) @xcite , using the bgp routing tables collected at the oregon route server , that gathers bgp - related information since 1997 .",
    "enriched maps can be obtained from some other public sources , such as looking glass sites and the reseaux ip europeens ( ripe ) @xcite , getting about 40% of new as - as connections .",
    "these graph representations do not model individual hosts , too numerous , and neglect link properties such as bandwidth , actual data load , or geographical distance . for these reasons , the graph - like representation must be considered as an overlay of the basic topological structure : the skeleton of the internet . moreover , the data collected for the two levels are different , and both representations may be incomplete or partial to different degrees . in particular , measurements may not capture all the nodes present in the actual network and , more often , they do not include all the links among nodes .",
    "it is not our purpose here to argue about the reliability of the different maps .",
    "however , the conclusions we shall present in this paper seem rather stable in time for the different maps .",
    "hopefully , this fact means that , despite the different degrees of completeness , the present maps represent a fairly good statistical sampling of the internet as a whole .",
    "in particular , we shall use the map collected during october",
    "/ november 1999 by the scan project with the mercator software as representative of the internet router level . at the autonomous system level we consider the ( as ) map collected at oregon route server and the enriched ( as+ ) map ( available at @xcite ) , both dated may 25 , 2001 .",
    "we start our study by analysing some standard metrics : the total number of nodes @xmath0 and edges @xmath1 , the node connectivity @xmath2 , the minimum path distance between pairs of nodes @xmath3 , the clustering coefficient @xmath4 , and the betweenness @xmath5 .",
    "the connectivity @xmath2 of a node is defined as the number of edges incident to that node , _",
    "i.e. _ the number of connections of that node with other nodes in the network .",
    "if nodes @xmath6 and @xmath7 are connected we will say that they are nearest neighbors .",
    "the minimum path distance @xmath3 between a pair of nodes @xmath6 and @xmath7 is defined as the minimum number of nodes traversed by a path that goes from one node to the other .",
    "the clustering coefficient @xmath4 @xcite of the node @xmath6 is defined as the ratio between the number of edges @xmath8 in the sub - graph identified by its nearest neighbors and its maximum possible value @xmath9 , corresponding to a complete sub - graph , _ i.e. _ @xmath10 .",
    "this magnitude quantifies the tendency that two nodes connected to the same node are also connected to each other .",
    "the clustering coefficient @xmath4 takes values of order @xmath11 for grid networks . on the other hand , for random graphs @xcite , which are constructed by connecting nodes at random with a fixed probability @xmath12 ,",
    "the clustering coefficient is of order @xmath13 .",
    "finally , the betweenness @xmath5 of a node @xmath6 is defined as the total number of minimum paths that pass through that node .",
    "it gives an measure of the amount of traffic that goes through a node , if the minimum path distance is considered as the metric defining the optimal path between pairs of nodes .",
    "the average values of these metrics over every node ( or pair of nodes for @xmath3 ) in the as , as+ , and ir maps is given in table  [ tab:1 ] .",
    ".average metrics of the as , as+ , and ir maps .",
    "see text for the metrics definitions . [",
    "cols=\"<,>,>,<,<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     the average connectivity for the three maps is of order @xmath11 ; therefore , they can be considered as _ sparse _ graphs . despite the small average connectivity , however , the average minimum path distance is also very small , compared to the size of the maps .",
    "the probability distribution of the minimum path distance , @xmath14 $ ] , is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig:1 ] . for all maps",
    "this distribution is sharply peaked around the average value @xmath15 ; therefore , we can take @xmath16 as the characteristic minimum path distance . in the next section",
    "we will show that this is not the case for the connectivity , that is characterized by large fluctuations from node to node .",
    "thus , the internet strikingly exhibits what is known as the `` small - world '' effect @xcite : in average one can go from one node to any other in the system passing through a very small number of intermediate nodes .",
    "since the network is sparse this necessarily implies that there are some hubs and backbones which connect different regional networks , strongly decreasing the value of @xmath17 .",
    "the small world evidence is strenghtened by the empirical finding of clustering coefficients for the as , as+ , and ir four orders of magnitude larger than the corresponding value for a random graph of the same size , @xmath18 .",
    "as discussed above , this fact implies that neighbors of the same node are very likely on their turn connected among themselves .",
    "the high clustering coefficient of the internet maps is probably due to geographical constraint . in internet graphs ,",
    "all links are equivalent . yet",
    ", the physical connections are characterized by a real space length .",
    "the larger is this length , the higher the cost of installation and maintenance of the physical line , favoring therefore the preferential connection between nearby nodes .",
    "it is likely that nodes within the same geographical region will have a large number of connections among them , increasing in this way the clustering coefficient .",
    "another measure of interest is given by the number of minimal paths that pass by each node .",
    "to go from one node in the network to another following the minimum path , a sequence of nodes is visited .",
    "if we do this for every pair of nodes in the network , there will be a certain number of key nodes that will be visited more often than others .",
    "such nodes will be of great importance for the transmission of information along the network .",
    "this evidence can be quantitatively measured by means of the betweenness @xmath5 ; _ i.e. _ the number of minimum paths that go through each node @xmath6 .",
    "this magnitude has been introduced in the analysis of social networks in ref .",
    "@xcite and more recently it has been studied for the as maps , with the name of load @xcite . an algorithm to compute the betweenness has been described in ref .",
    "@xcite . for a star network",
    "the betweenness takes its maximum value @xmath19 at the central node and its minimum value @xmath20 at the vertices of the star .",
    "the average betweenness of the as , as+ , and ir maps analyzed here is @xmath21 , as shown in table  [ tab:1 ] . in the case of the as and as+ maps , despite the enriched map has a much larger number of edges , the average measures are very similar .    while some metrics are very alike ( for instance , the average betweenness @xmath22 ) , some differences among others are consistent with the fact that the as and as+ maps are a coarse - grained representation of the ir map . the ir level map is , for instance , sparser , and its average minimum path distance is larger .",
    "the ir map has a small average connectivity , because routers have a finite capacity and , therefore , can have a limited number of connections . on the contrary , ass can have in principle any number of connections , since they represent the aggregation of a large number of routers .",
    "this implies that as maps have a greater number of nodes with a high number of connections ( hubs ) , providing the shortcuts needed to produce a small average minimum path distance .",
    "the analysis of the average measures presented in the previous section makes clear that the internet does not resemble a star - shaped architectures with just a few gigantic hubs and a multitude of singly connected nodes .",
    "the same measurements rule out as well the possibility of a random graph structure or a regular grid architecture .",
    "these evidences suggest a peculiar topology that will be clearly identified by looking at the detailed distributions .",
    "in particular , faloutsos _",
    "@xcite pointed out for the first time that the connectivity properties of the internet as maps are characterized by a probability distribution that a node has @xmath23 links with the form @xmath24 , where @xmath25 is a characteristic exponent .",
    "this behavior signals the presence of _ scale - free _ connectivity properties ; _ i.e. _ there is no characteristic connectivity above which the probability is decaying exponentially to zero .",
    "in other words , there is a statistically significant probability that a node has a very large number of connections compared to the average connectivity @xmath26 .",
    "in addition , the implicit divergence of @xmath27 is signalling the extreme heterogeneity of the connectivity pattern , since it implies that statistical fluctuations are unbounded . the work of faloutsos _ et al .",
    "_ was followed by different studies of as maps @xcite , as+ maps @xcite , and ir maps @xcite . here",
    ", we will revisit the analysis of scale - free properties in recent as , as+ , and ir level maps .",
    "we start by considering the integrated connectivity probability @xmath28 $ ] . in the case of a pure power - law probability distribution @xmath24",
    ", we expect the functional behavior @xmath29 , where @xmath30 is a normalization constant . in fig .",
    "[ fig:2 ] we show the connectivity distribution for the as , as+ , and ir maps . for the as map a clear power law decay with exponent @xmath31",
    "is observed , as it has been already reported elsewhere  @xcite .",
    "the reported distribution is also stable in time as found by analyzing different time snapshot of the as level maps obtained by the nlanr  @xcite . as noted in ref .",
    "@xcite , the connectivity distribution for the as+ enriched data deviates from a pure power law at intermediate connectivities .",
    "this anomaly might or might not be related to the biased enrichment of the internet sampling ( see ref .",
    "@xcite ) . while this represents an important point in the detailed description of the connectivity properties , it is not critical concerning the scale - free nature of the internet . with respect to the network physical properties ,",
    "it is just the large connectivity region that is actually effective .",
    "indeed , recent studies about network resilience to removal of nodes @xcite and virus spreading @xcite have shown that the relevant parameter is the ratio @xmath32 between the first two moments of the connectivity distribution . if @xmath33 then the network manifests some properties that are not observed for networks with exponentially bounded connectivity distributions .",
    "for instance , we can randomly remove practically all the nodes in the network and a giant connected component @xcite will still exist . in both the as and as+ maps ,",
    "in fact , we observe a wide connectivity distribution , with the same dependency for very large @xmath23 .",
    "the factor @xmath34 is mainly determined by the tail of the distribution , and is very similar for both maps . in particular , we estimate @xmath35 and @xmath36 for the as and as+ maps , respectively . with such a large values , for all practical purposes ( resilience , virus spreading , traffic , etc . )",
    "the as and as+ maps behave almost identically .",
    "the connectivity distribution of the ir level map has a power - law behavior that is , however , smoothed by a clear exponential cut - off .",
    "the existence of a power - law tendency for small connectivities is better seen for the probability distribution @xmath37 $ ] , as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig:3 ] . a power law fit of the form @xmath38 for @xmath39 yields the exponent @xmath31 , in perfect agreement with the exponent found for the integrated connectivity distribution in the as map .",
    "nevertheless , for @xmath40 the ir map integrated connectivity distribution follows a faster decay . this picture is consistent with a finite size scaling of the form @xmath41 @xcite .",
    "here @xmath42 is a characteristic connectivity beyond which the distribution decays faster than a power law , and @xmath43 has the asymptotic behavior @xmath44 const . for @xmath45 and @xmath46 for @xmath47 .",
    "deviations from the power law behavior at large connectivities have been also observed for the larger maps reported in ref .",
    "@xcite . in that work",
    ", the integrated probability distribution is fitted to the weibull distribution @xmath48 $ ] .",
    "while we do not want to enter into the details of the different fitting procedures , we suggest that the more general fitting form @xmath41 , in which @xmath49 is an independent fitting parameter , is likely a better option .",
    "the presence of truncated power laws must not be considered a surprise , since it finds a natural place in the context of scale - free phenomena . actually , bounded scale - free distributions ( _ i.e. _ power - law distributions with a cut - off ) are implicitly present in every real world system because of finite - size effects or physical constraints .",
    "truncated power laws are observed also in other real networks @xcite and different mechanisms have been proposed to explain the cut - off for large connectivities . actually , we can distinguish two different kinds of cut - offs in real networks .",
    "the first is an exponential cut - off , @xmath50 , which can be explained in terms of a finite connectivity capacity of the network elements @xcite or incomplete information @xcite .",
    "this is likely what is happening at the ir level , where the finite capacity constraint ( maximum number of router interfaces ) is , in our opinion , the dominant mechanism affecting the tail of the connectivity distribution . in this perspective",
    ", larger and more recent samples at the ir level could present a shift in the cut - off due to the improved technical router capabilities and the larger statistical sampling .",
    "a second possibility is given by a very steep cut - off such as @xmath51 , where @xmath52 is the heaviside step function .",
    "this is what happens in growing networks with a finite number of elements . since sf networks",
    "are often dynamically growing networks , this case represents a network which has grown up to a finite number of nodes @xmath0 .",
    "the maximum connectivity @xmath42 of any node is related to the network age .",
    "the scale - free behavior is evident up the @xmath42 and then decays as a step function since the network does not possess any node with connectivity @xmath23 larger than @xmath42 . by inspecting fig .",
    "[ fig:2 ] , this second possibility appears realized at the as level .",
    "indeed , the dominant mechanism at this level is the finite size of the network , while connectivity limits are not present , since each as is a collection of a large number of routers , and it can handle a very large connectivity load .",
    "the connection between finite capacity and bounded distributions becomes evident also if we consider the betweenness .",
    "this magnitude is a static estimate of the amount of traffic that a node supports .",
    "hence , if a router has a bounded capacity , the betweenness distribution should also be bounded at large betweenness . on the contrary",
    ", this effect should be absent for the as maps .",
    "the integrated betweenness distribution @xmath53 $ ] for the as , as+ , and ir maps is shown in fig .  [ fig:4 ] .",
    "the as and as+ distributions are practically the same and they are well fitted by a power law @xmath54 with an exponent @xmath55 . in the case of the ir map , on the other hand , the betweenness distribution follows a truncated power law , in analogy to what is observed for the connectivity distribution .",
    "the betweenness distribution , therefore , corroborates the equivalence between the as and as+ maps , and the existence of truncated power laws for the ir map .",
    "finally , it is worth to stress that while the power law truncation is an expected feature of finite systems , the scale - free regime is the important signature of an emergent cooperative behavior in the internet dynamical evolution .",
    "this dynamics play therefore a central role in the understanding and modeling of the internet . in this persepective , the developing of a statistical mechanics approach to complex networks @xcite is providing a new dynamical framework where the distinctive statistical regularities of the internet can be understood in term of the basic processes ruling the appearance or disappearence of nodes and links .",
    "the topological metrics analyzed so far give us a distinction between the as and ir maps with respect to the large connectivity and betweenness properties .",
    "the difference becomes , however , more evident if we consider properties related with the existence of hierarchy and correlations .",
    "the primary known structural difference in the internet is the distinction between _ stub _ and _ transit _ domains . nodes in stub domains have links that go only through the domain itself .",
    "stub domains , on the other hand , are connected via a gateway node to transit domains that , on the contrary , are fairly well interconnected via many paths .",
    "this hierarchy can be schematically divided in international connections , national backbones , regional networks , and local area networks .",
    "nodes providing access to international connections or national backbones are of course on top level of this hierarchy , since they make possible the communication between regional and local area networks . moreover , in this way , a small average minimum path length can be achieved with a small average connectivity .",
    "this hierarchical structure will introduce some correlations in the network structure , and it is an important issue to understand how these features manifest at the topological level . in order to exploit the presence of hierarchies in internet maps we introduce two metrics based on the clustering coefficient and the nearest neighbor average connectivity @xcite .",
    "the previously defined clustering coefficient is the average probability that two neighbors @xmath56 and @xmath57 of a node @xmath6 are connected .",
    "let us consider the _",
    "adjacency matrix _ @xmath58 , that indicates whether there is a connection between the nodes @xmath6 and @xmath7 ( @xmath59 ) , or the connection is absent ( @xmath60 ) .",
    "given the definition of the clustering coefficient , it is easy to see that the number of edges in the subgraph identified by the nearest neighbors of the node @xmath6 can be computed as @xmath61",
    ". therefore , the clustering coefficient @xmath4 measures the existence of _ correlations _ in the adjacency matrix , weighted by the corresponding node connectivity . in section  [ sec : ave ] we have shown that the clustering coefficient for the as , as+ , and ir maps is four orders of magnitude larger than the one expected for a random graph and , therefore , that they are far from being random .",
    "further information can be extracted if one computes the clustering coefficient as a function of the node connectivity @xcite . in fig .",
    "[ fig:5 ] we plot the average clustering coefficient @xmath62 for nodes with connectivity @xmath23 . in the case of the as and as+ maps this quantity follows a similar trend that can be approximated by a power law decay with an exponent around @xmath63 . for the ir map , however , except for a sharp drop for large values of @xmath23 , attributable to low statistics , it is almost constant , and equal to the average clustering coefficient @xmath64 .",
    "this implies that , in the as and as+ maps , nodes with a small number of connections have larger local clustering coefficients than those with a large connectivity .",
    "this behavior is consistent with the picture described in the previous section of highly clustered regional networks sparsely interconnected by national backbones and international connections .",
    "the regional clusters of ass are probably formed by a large number of nodes with small connectivity but large clustering coefficients .",
    "moreover , they should also contain nodes with large connectivities that are connected with the other regional clusters .",
    "these large connectivity nodes will be on their turn connected to nodes in different clusters which are not interconnected and , therefore , will have a small local clustering coefficient . on the contrary , in the ir level map these correlations",
    "are absent .",
    "somehow the domain hierarchy does not produce any signature at the single router scale , where the geographic constraints and connectivity bounds probably play a more important role .",
    "these observations for the clustering coefficient are supported by another metric related with the correlations between node connectivities .",
    "these correlations are quantified by the probability @xmath65 that , given a node with connectivity @xmath23 , it is connected to a node with connectivity @xmath66 . with the available data , a direct plot of @xmath65 results very noisy and difficult to interpret  @xcite .",
    "thus in ref .  @xcite we suggested to measure instead the nearest neighbors average connectivity of the nodes of connectivity @xmath23 , @xmath67 , and to plot it as a function of the connectivity @xmath23 . if there are no connectivity correlations ( _ i.e. _ for a random network ) , then @xmath68 , where @xmath69 is the connectivity distribution , and we obtain @xmath70 , which is independent of @xmath23 .",
    "the corresponding plots for the as , as+ , and ir maps are shown in fig .  [ fig:6 ] . for the as and as+ maps we observe a power - law decay for more than two decades , with a characteristic exponent @xmath71 , clearly indicating the existence of correlations .",
    "on the contrary , the ir map displays again an almost constant nearest neighbors average connectivity , very similar to the expected value for a random network with the same connectivity distribution , @xmath72 .",
    "again , the sharp drop for large @xmath23 can be attributed to the low statistics for such large connectivities .",
    "therefore , also in this case the two levels of representation show very different features .",
    "it is worth remarking that the present analysis of the hierarchical and correlation properties shows a very good consistency of results in the case of the as and as+ maps .",
    "this points out a robustness of these features that can thus be considered as general properties at the as level . on the other hand",
    ", the ir map shows a marked difference that must be accounted for when developing topology generators . in other words , internet protocols working at different representation levels must be thought as working on different topologies .",
    "topology generators as well must include these differences , depending on the level at which we intend to model the internet topology .",
    "the increasing availability of larger internet maps and the proliferation of growing networks models with scale - free features have recently stimulated a more detailed statistical analysis aimed at the identification of distinctive metrics and features for the internet topology . at this respect , in the present work we have presented a detailed statistical analysis of several metrics on internet maps collected at the router and autonomous system levels .",
    "our analysis confirms the presence of a power - law ( scale - free ) behavior for the connectivity distribution , as well as for the betweenness distribution , that can be associated to a measure of the load of the nodes in the maps .",
    "the exponential cut - offs observed in the ir maps , associated to the limited capacity of the routers , are absent in the as level , which conglomerate a large number of routers and are thus able to bear a larger load .",
    "the analysis of the clustering coefficient and the nearest neighbors average connectivity show in a quantitative way the presence of strong correlations in the internet connectivity at the as level , correlations that can be related to the hierarchical distribution of this network .",
    "these correlations , on the other hand , seem to be nonexistent at the ir level .",
    "the correlation properties clearly indicate the presence of strong diferences between the ir and as levels of representation .",
    "our findings represent a step forward in the characterization of the internet topology , and will be helpful for scrutinizing more thoroughly the actual validity of the network models proposed so far , and as ingredient in the elaboration of new and more realistic internet topology generators .",
    "a first step in this direction has been already given in the network model proposed in ref .",
    "this work has been partially supported by the european commission - fet open project cosin ist-2001 - 33555 .",
    "r.p .- s . acknowledges financial support from the ministerio de ciencia y tecnologa ( spain ) .",
    "we thank t. erlebach for the help in the data collection process .",
    "the national laboratory for applied network research ( nlanr ) , sponsored by the national science foundation , provides internet routing related information based on bgp data ( see http://moat.nlanr.net/ ) .",
    "r.  a. albert , h.  jeong , and a .-",
    "barabsi , nature * 406 * , 378 ( 2000 ) ; d.  s. callaway , m.  e.  j. newman , s.  h. strogatz , and d.  j. watts , phys .",
    "lett . * 85 * , 5468 ( 2000 ) ; r.  cohen , k.  erez , d.  ben - avraham , and s.  havlin , phys . rev . lett . * 86 * , 3682 ( 2001 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a statistical analysis of different metrics characterizing the topological properties of internet maps , collected at two different resolution scales : the router and the autonomous system level . </S>",
    "<S> the metrics we consider allow us to confirm the presence of scale - free signatures in several statistical distributions , as well as to show in a quantitative way the hierarchical nature of the internet . </S>",
    "<S> our findings are relevant for the development of more accurate internet topology generators , which should include , along with the scale - free properties of the connectivity distribution , the hierarchical signatures unveiled in the present work . </S>"
  ]
}