{
  "article_text": [
    "in recent years , several novel methods of scanning probe microscopy have been developed . generally speaking one can divide these methods into two main approaches , driven by distinct motivations . in the first approach the main goal is to study material properties , preferably on the smallest possible length scale .",
    "examples of such techniques are atomic force microscopy ( afm ) and scanning tunneling microscopy ( stm ) @xcite , which have achieved atomic scale spatial resolution .",
    "the second objective is the investigation of fields , both electric and magnetic , emitted by operating devices .",
    "an example of such a technique is scanning microwave microscopy@xcite",
    ". for devices operating in the microwave range , a scanning technique at microwave frequencies will be useful for diagnosing circuit problems . despite the relatively long wavelength , of the order of mm s to cm s , spatial resolution below 1 @xmath0",
    "m can be achieved by operating in the so - called near - field limit@xcite . in this paper",
    "we will illustrate the versatility of near - field scanning microwave microscopy , by showing results on local material properties as well as on electromagnetic field imaging in close proximity to operating devices .",
    "fig .  [ setup ] shows a schematic of our experimental setup .",
    "the microwave microscope can be operated in two distinct configurations : what we call the reflecting mode ( solid lines in fig .",
    "[ setup ] ) and the receiving mode ( dashed - dotted lines ) .",
    "= 7.5 cm      in the reflecting mode , a microwave signal is fed through a coaxial transmission line which has been capacitively coupled to the source and ends in a rigid open - ended coaxial probe .",
    "this creates a resonant circuit , in which the resonant frequency @xmath1 and the quality factor @xmath2 are modified by the sample which is in close proximity to the open end of the probe . using a lock - in based frequency - following circuit@xcite we measure the shift of the resonance @xmath3 as the sample",
    "is scanned under the probe .",
    "we can also measure the strength of the signal at twice the lock - in modulation frequency .",
    "the latter is related to the curvature of the resonance peak and is a measure of the @xmath2 of the system@xcite . by measuring both quantities simultaneously we obtain information about the real and the imaginary part of the complex dielectric function , @xmath4 , of the sample .      a slightly modified configuration ( dash - dotted lines in fig .  [ setup ] )",
    "can be used to measure electric fields emitted by operating microwave devices . in this case",
    ", microwave power is fed directly to the device and the coaxial probe senses the electric fields from the sample . the microwave power measured by the probe",
    "is fed to the diode detector directly , bypassing the decoupler , directional coupler and the resonant transmission line .",
    "the measured amplitude can be converted to electric field , using additional information about the setup@xcite .",
    "the data analysis can be complicated considerably when , in addition to the variations in material properties , the sample exhibits topographic features@xcite .",
    "several methods have been used to separate out the topography .",
    "the simplest approach is to scan the same region twice , initially recording the topography@xcite .",
    "another solution is to measure the probe - sample separation independently , and use this information in a feedback loop to maintain the probe at a constant height@xcite .",
    "our system is especially sensitive to topographic features when we measure the frequency shift @xmath3 .",
    "figure [ dielsamp ] shows a glass chip in which various topographic features were etched .",
    "= 6.6 cm    by measuring the height dependence of the frequency shift at one particular spot on the sample ( fig .",
    "[ dielcali ] ) , we calibrate the relation between @xmath3 and the height @xmath5 .",
    "next , we fit the response to an empirical function , shown as the solid line",
    ". we can then use this function to determine the absolute height of the probe above the entire sample@xcite .",
    "figure [ dielimag]a shows such a topographic image taken using a probe with an inner conductor diameter of 100 @xmath6 at 50 @xmath6 above the highest point on the sample .",
    "we are able to discern height changes as small as 55 nm , this figure being limited by the frequency stability of the microwave source .",
    "a line cut , taken along the dashed line in figure [ dielsamp ] , reveals more details ( see fig .",
    "[ dielimag]b ) .",
    "the dashed line shows the width of the slits , all of which are 30 @xmath6 deep .",
    "a fair agreement is obtained for most of the line - cut , although it can be seen that for features comparable to or smaller than the probe size , the height measured with the microwave microscope suffers from averaging effects , yielding results which are too shallow .",
    "the effective spatial resolution is @xmath7 .",
    "an important potential application of microwave microscopy is for the diagnosis of problems in integrated circuits . since many circuits operate at microwave frequencies , it is essential to have a technique that searches for faults at the operating frequency .",
    "in addition , a non - destructive technique is desired .",
    "near - field microwave microscopy offers the possibility of scanning the coaxial probe in close proximity to an operating device , thereby sensing the electric field component normal to the face of the probe@xcite .",
    "much of our research is devoted to the study of superconducting devices .",
    "for this reason , we have developed a microscope which works at temperatures down to 4.2 k@xcite . in fig .",
    "[ cuphoto ] we show a cu - microstrip resonator .",
    "= 7.5 cm    the groundplane of the microstrip is also made of copper , and the microstrip dimensions are 8@xmath8 mm . fixing a 200 @xmath6 diameter probe at 1 mm above position a , and coupling the microwave power in at @xmath9 , we measured the signal picked up by the probe as a function of frequency .",
    "the response at 300 k and 77 k is shown in fig .",
    "[ cufre ] .",
    "= 7.5 cm    upon lowering the temperature , both the signal picked up by the probe and the @xmath2 of the resonator are enhanced considerably .    from fig .",
    "[ cufre ] , we also see that the resonant frequency of the microstrip increases at low temperatures .",
    "one possible cause is that the decreased inductance ( reduced skin depth ) at lower temperatures will shift the resonant frequency upward .",
    "this is consistent with the reduced losses at 77 k , clearly visible in the enhanced quality factor of the resonance . assuming that the enhanced @xmath2 can be associated entirely with the cu - microstrip",
    ", we can calculate how large the corresponding frequency shift will be . for",
    "@xmath10 one expects a change in frequency of approximately 0.1 % , giving @xmath11 mhz .",
    "since the measured frequency shift is much larger ( @xmath12 mhz ) , it is clear that this effect plays only a minor role .",
    "secondly , thermal contraction will also increase the resonant frequency .",
    "assuming a thermal contraction coefficient @xmath13 , the relative change of the length of the resonator would be approximately @xmath14 , implying a similar change in the resonant frequency .",
    "finally , the presence of the probe close to the resonator imposes a perturbation on the latter .",
    "since this is an electric field perturbation , the resonant frequency will tend to shift down .",
    "part of the shift may hence be due to the fact that the coupling between the probe and the cu - resonator is less at low temperatures .    to image the sample , we fixed the frequency at the resonance peak and scanned the sample underneath the coaxial probe , measuring the electric field as a function of position . the resulting xy - scan at 77 k can be seen in fig .",
    "[ cuxyscan ] ; the probe was kept at a constant distance of 350 @xmath6 above the sample .",
    "= 7.5 cm    we see that the electric field peaks at the ends of the stripline and vanishes in the middle , as expected for the fundamental voltage mode .",
    "close to the power pin ( near x = 7 mm ) the perturbing effect of the probe is more serious than in the rest of the image , causing the amplitude to decrease slightly .",
    "we have demonstrated the ability of near - field scanning microscopy to provide quantitative information on material properties and electric field distributions at microwave frequencies .",
    "we are able to study microwave properties at a length scale as small as @xmath15 , operating at temperatures varying from 4.2 to 300 k. +   + this work has been supported by nsf - mrsec grant no .",
    "dmr-9632521 , nsf grant no .",
    "ecs-9632811 and the center for superconductivity research .",
    "thomas  p. budka , scott  d. waclawik , and gabriel  m. rebeiz , ` a coaxial 0.5 - 18 ghz near electric field measurement system for planar microwave circuits using integrated probes ' , ieee trans .",
    ". tech . * 44 * , 2174 ( 1996 ) .",
    "j.  w.  p. hsu , mark lee , and b.  s. deaver , ` a nonoptical tip - sample distance control method for near - field scanning optical microscopy using impedance changes in an electromechanical system ' , rev .",
    "sci . instr . * 66 * , 3177 ( 1995 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we describe the near - field scanning microwave microscopy of microwave devices on a length scale much smaller than the wavelength used for imaging . </S>",
    "<S> our microscope can be operated in two possible configurations , allowing a quantitative study of either material properties or local electric fields . </S>"
  ]
}