{
  "article_text": [
    "single  electron charging effects are among the most celebrated phenomena of mesoscopic physics . the technological trend in continuous down - scaling of feature size in",
    "solid state electronics advances into a field where mesoscopic and quantum phenomena start to play a dominant role .",
    "the potential advantages of nanostructured electronics are e.g.  increased speed , reduced power dissipation or the implementation of quantum logic operations . however , new attractive phenomena are often accompanied by less desirable effects .",
    "one of the most serious problems of mesoscopic electronic devices ( and an extension of their high sensitivity ) is fluctuating background charge . in spite of increased efforts in fabrication technology to produce high purity components , imperfections in solid state devices",
    "leading to interface or bulk trap states are responsible for inevitable background charge fluctuations . the significance of this problem is well known e.g.  by the mosfet community ,  @xcite but it is at least as crucial for potentially useful nanodevice applications .",
    "the metallic single ",
    "electron transistor ( set )  @xcite is one of the simplest and most extensively studied architectures manifesting coulomb blockade . due to its extreme charge sensitivity and the ability to transfer individual electrons , sets",
    "have been proposed for a variety of applications or as building blocks of future electronics .",
    "it is known , however , that device sensitivity at dc operation is limited by low frequency input noise due to dynamic charge fluctuations in the vicinity of the set , in metallic  @xcite as well as in semiconductor  @xcite devices . a possible solution to this problem is provided e.g.  by the radio frequency set  @xcite operating well above the @xmath0 noise spectrum , or by appropriate device fabrication aiming for optimal shielding of the set island against external charge perturbations .",
    "@xcite    at least as serious as the dynamic noise is the static offset charge problem , which sets the device in an initial random state due to the random configuration of the quasi - static charge background .",
    "fluctuators with large time constants but strong electrostatic influence on the device characteristics may shift the operation point such that repeated tuning of the biasing condition is required .",
    "this unpleasant though not unusual scenario severely reduces the reliability of sets for broader applications .",
    "furthermore , it has also been suggested that photon assisted tunneling ( pat ) due to background charge fluctuations as extrapolated from @xmath0 noise spectra may be the accuracy limiting process in high precision experiments .",
    "@xcite    from a different perspective , charging effects in ultra small electronic devices may serve as the base mechanism of memory devices .",
    "@xcite due to technological limitations , operation of lithographically prepared single ",
    "electron devices is restricted to very low temperatures .",
    "however , the small size of charge traps ( on the order of 1  nm ) due to intrinsic impurities potentially allows manipulation of single charges at room temperature . if the random nature of impurities can be controlled or at least their behavior selectively discriminated , the discrete charging of traps can provide the essential process in high - density nonvolatile memory devices .    therefore , due to the crucial role of background charge fluctuations for mesoscopic devices ( as well as for microelectronics in general ) , a profound understanding of charge trapping processes is most desirable .",
    "we have performed extensive experimental studies on charge fluctuations in the vicinity of a modified multiple gate set ( originally an electron pump , see section  [ sec : samples ] ) .",
    "we are able to identify the location and electronic configuration of individual metastable trap states .",
    "our method proves the feasibility of and provides a tool for characterizing the charge background and for optimizing the operation point with a working device with respect to noise performance , i.e.  the mesoscopic sample under investigation and the detector for charge fluctuations are the same .",
    "measurements on experimental sensing of environmental charges are the main focus of this paper .",
    "because the results certainly depend on the device topology and the substrate and lithographic quality , a detailed description of the device fabrication as given in the following part is believed to be essential . the experimental setup and the measurement procedure , which allow a virtually continuous resolution of charge fluctuations as a function of gate potentials , follow in the second part of this section .",
    "the third part presents the results .",
    "the investigation of a multigate set transistor was intended to be a preparation step towards the study of an electron pump : a device for pumping of single electrons in a controllable way , which in the simplest version consists of three ultra small tunnel junctions with two gates .",
    "@xcite the correlated transfer of electrons is realized in the pump with the help of an external rf - drive applied to the gates with appropriate relative phase shifts . since the electrostatic interactions are generally long - range , it is important for proper pumping to be able to minimize the inevitable cross - influence of the gates . in order to experimentally study different gate configurations we used the multigate set sharing the same layout with the pump , with the exception that one side tunnel junction in the pump was intentionally shorted ,",
    "see fig .",
    "[ layout ] .",
    "layout of the multigate set ( on the left ) showing the actual metal depositions from the two angle evaporation ( note the different hatching ) .",
    "the island closer to the source ( s ) couples to the electrodes via small high resistance tunnel junctions , whereas the other island of the original e - pump design has a short to drain ( d ) .",
    "the afm picture ( inset top right ) nicely shows the overlap regions ( brighter is higher ) of the same device ( type a ) . an alternative device used ( type b ) differs only by more distant gates g2 and g4 ( inset bottom right ) .",
    "the narrow strip lines have a width of 80  nm.,width=302 ]    the structure of type al / alo@xmath1/al was fabricated by the two angle evaporation technique  @xcite on a thermally oxidized ( 300  nm deep ) wafer of monocrystal si .",
    "the trilayer mask pmma / ge / pmma - maa ( copolymer ) , 100  nm , 30  nm and 300  nm thick respectively ( top to bottom ) , was exposed in the e - beam pattern generator philips ebpg 4 , both in the part of the fine structure and in the part of the contact leads and pads .",
    "after development of the pmma in the mixture of mibk / ipa , 1:2 , for 1  min , the pattern was transferred to the layer of ge by means of reactive - sputter etching ( cf@xmath2 , 1  pa , rf - power density 0.2  w/@xmath3 , 75  s ) , and then through the layer of the copolymer ( o@xmath4 , 0.8  pa , 0.1  w/@xmath3 , 3  min ) down to the substrate oxide with sufficient over - etch time , which was necessary to compensate for the process non - uniformities .",
    "the undercut space necessary for oblique deposition was formed by isotropic etching of copolymer at high oxygen pressure ( 30  pa , 0.1  w/@xmath3 , 20  min ) . at this stage the surface oxide of the substrate was exposed to the oxygen plasma , which we believe might have helped in restoring the oxide quality after the previous sputter - etch step .",
    "the metal structure was deposited by the e - beam evaporator in one vacuum run and was formed by two conform layers of al ( 25  nm and 35  nm thick ) evaporated at 0.3  nm / s at the angles of @xmath5 and @xmath6 , respectively .",
    "the base pressure in the evaporation chamber was below @xmath7  pa .",
    "the junctions ( 80  nm  @xmath8  80  nm in size ) were formed as the overlapped tips of the al microstrips belonging to different layers .",
    "the dielectric barrier was formed by room temperature oxidation of the first al layer ( 10  min at pure oxygen of 1  mbar ) before the deposition of the second layer .",
    "after evaporation the sample was immersed in acetone for mask lift - off .    the only unknown or uncontrollable process influencing the physical properties of the samples is the long - term oxidation when stocking them . in spite of the high - quality fabrication and proven long - term stability of the devices ,",
    "very slow oxide formation at the interfaces inevitably continues , which may , eventually together with ion diffusion , subsequently introduce shallow defects .",
    "measurements were performed in a dilution cryostat with a base temperature of 5  mk , whereas the effective electron temperature of our system was found  @xcite to be 45  mk .",
    "the lines running from the room temperature electronics to the cold set devices were filtered against microwave propagation with 2  m thermocoax cables  @xcite each , and the sample holder was thoroughly enclosed to be electromagnetically tight .",
    "a magnetic field of typically 1  t was applied to suppress superconductivity of the aluminum devices .     schematic readout circuit with voltage biased set ( dashed rectangle at low temperature ) , transimpedance amplifier ( ic1 ) and feedback circuitry ( ic2 ) .",
    "signal attenuators and filters used are omitted here for clarity .",
    "a measured coulomb blockade peak ( non - zero conductance around @xmath9 island charge ) is shown in the lower part , illustrating the effect of a potential variation @xmath10.,width=283 ]    the bias and readout electronics is schematically drawn in fig .",
    "[ readout ] .",
    "it consists of a symmetrically voltage driven set , where the current @xmath11 through the transistor is sensed by the transimpedance amplifier ic1 ( with feedback resistor @xmath12 , where @xmath13 is the asymptotic set device series resistance ) .",
    "the input impedance of ic1 is required to be very high , then the current through the set is given by @xmath14 where @xmath15 is the source - drain voltage .",
    "the measurements discussed here were performed with a feedback circuitry holding the set island at constant potential ( or charge ) irrespective of external potential variations .",
    "this was achieved by biasing the device at a coulomb blockade peak at high gain @xmath16 ( see lower part in fig .  [ readout ] ) , integrating @xmath17 ( right hand part of circuit with ic2 in fig .  [ readout ] ) and feeding the signal back to g@xmath18 , the feedback gate .",
    "when @xmath17 changes by @xmath19 for whatever reason , the feedback circuit reacts with a voltage @xmath20 in order to adjust @xmath17 to @xmath21 ( the minus sign stems from the inverting integrator circuit ) . in general , the requirement for the island to stay on constant potential is @xmath22 where @xmath23 is the charge influenced on the island by the gate with capacitance @xmath24 being at the potential @xmath25 .",
    "therefore , upon a variation @xmath26 the island charge is modulated ( i.e.  the gate modulation curve is shifted by @xmath27 ) and the feedback circuit response , still without background charges , is a voltage    @xmath28    to the feedback gate with capacitance @xmath29 .",
    "if the device is an isolated system where the only non - zero potentials are supplied by the gates , the feedback voltage is always linear to the gate voltages , see eq .",
    "( [ eq : fdbk ] ) , and can be subtracted in the data analysis of gate sweep measurements . however ,",
    "if extra background charges in the vicinity of the set are taken into account , they modify the island potential such that    @xmath30    is the corresponding charge shift which is compensated by g@xmath18 .    the dynamics of our electronics are limited to low frequencies . the main constraint on the response is given by the @xmath31 time of the set resistance ( @xmath32 ) and the cable capacitance ( @xmath33  pf ) , constituting roughly a 10  khz low - pass .",
    "the integration time @xmath34 was typically set much slower , i.e.  on the order of 100  ms , to prevent the system from oscillations .",
    "the quasi dc measurements were performed by scanning one or more gates point by point , recording the signal @xmath35 ( or @xmath17 ) for typically 1  s and performing statistics and fourier transform .",
    "the gate voltage step size could be set arbitrarily small , while the resolution was limited by thermal or vibrational noise of the signal lines ( @xmath36  v rms ) .",
    "the readout electronics for this experiment was optimized for stability rather than sensitivity or band width in order to minimize external disturbances on the set and its environment .      set devices of type a and b ( see fig .",
    "[ layout ] ) were systematically investigated by taking @xmath37 characteristics and noise figures as a function of the four gates .",
    "the individual gate capacitances , which are listed in table  [ tab : devices ] , were consistently determined by measurement of coulomb blockade peak spacings @xmath38 as well as from the feedback method using eq .",
    "( [ eq : fdbk ] ) .",
    ".[tab : devices]gate capacitances in units of ( af ) for two multigate sets ( see fig.[layout ] ) as determined from coulomb blockade peak spacing measurements .",
    "[ cols=\"^ , > , > , > , > \" , ]     by means of the feedback circuitry the signal @xmath35 was measured as a function of the voltages varied at one or more gates .",
    "we define the `` background charge offset signal '' @xmath39 where @xmath26 is the step size of the gate sweep .",
    "@xmath40 will then be denoting the rms noise on the @xmath41 signal .",
    "the value of @xmath41 is zero when the set electrometer is linearly modified by the gate potentials only , and shows peaks for discontinuous variations of background charges . by scanning one single gate up and down , we found non - zero @xmath42 events which reproducibly appear at the same gate voltage @xmath25 while showing hysteresis of different magnitude .",
    "the observations are consistent with former measurements on background charge fluctuations .",
    "@xcite however , in ref .",
    "only a discrete resolution of the gate dependence was possible via analysis of the coulomb blockade peak positions , whereas here we are able to scan an arbitrary and continuous gate range .",
    "if two gates are swept simultaneously ( plus a third gate always acting as feedback ) , the local potential around the multigate set is differently modified due to the device geometry . the second gate shifts the potential threshold of a charge trap depending on its position . a measurement with two simultaneous gates swept is shown in fig .  [ fig : scan2d ] .",
    "the circles and dots correspond to events from up and down sweeps of gate g@xmath43 , respectively , where @xmath44 is above the instrumental and background noise .",
    "after each g@xmath43 sweep , @xmath45 is incremented .",
    "the events fall on different straight lines with different slopes . depending on the linear combination of the gate voltages involved , patterns different from fig .",
    "[ fig : scan2d ] were obtained , i.e.  including positive slopes , displaying more or less scatter , showing merging event lines or sudden breaks .",
    "measurements with all possible gate permutations on the same device were performed .",
    "example of background charge fluctuation events with @xmath46 , due to variation of gates g2 and g1 , as measured with a type a device .",
    "the straight lines are numerically fitted to the data .",
    "circles and dots are drawn for up and down sweeps of @xmath47 , respectively . only every fifth measurement point ( small dots ) in @xmath47",
    "is shown for clarity.,width=325 ]    under constant cryogenic conditions , the experimental results were highly reproducible , even after weeks . although the noise spectrum level of our devices ( @xmath48 at 10  hz ) is comparable to literature values for standard sets ,  @xcite we mostly observe a remarkably high long - term stability of our samples at stable conditions , i.e.  no drift and hardly any spontaneous jumps in @xmath37 characteristics .",
    "we attribute this high stability in first line to the very slow cooling of the devices ( about one day with very little exchange gas ) , which allows the traps to equilibrate in their lowest states .",
    "however , it is empirically established that the characteristics of background fluctuations change drastically upon thermal cycling .",
    "noise vs. signal in units of the elementary charge @xmath49 plotted from data of the same measurement as in fig .",
    "[ fig : scan2d ] .",
    "the semi - circles are fitted to the data points as described in the text .",
    "the intrinsic noise with @xmath50 is cut off for clarity .",
    "the inset shows a @xmath35 signal ( in arbitrary units ) as a function of time at a transition point where increased two - level fluctuations occur.,width=328 ]      signal height @xmath41 and rms noise @xmath40 from one measurement are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : s2n ] , taking the same data as in fig .",
    "[ fig : scan2d ] . a clear semi - circle correlation between noise and signal is observed .",
    "the lines are fits of @xmath51 to the data points , where @xmath52 is the full signal height due to one individual trap transition .",
    "this correlation is a consequence of the measurement system : @xmath40 , which is the rms value of the signal taken typically for 1  s , averages quadratically over possible two - level fluctuations . assuming that the signal fluctuates during the measurement between zero and @xmath52 where it spends the total times @xmath53 and @xmath54 , respectively , and the transitions are negligibly fast , the average and the rms values of this signal would be @xmath55 @xmath56 it is easily shown that the relations  ( [ circle2.eq ] ) correspond to eq .",
    "( [ circle1.eq ] ) . one interesting information from fig .",
    "[ fig : s2n ] is the correspondence between the events falling on a semi - circle and those building a straight line in fig .",
    "[ fig : scan2d ] , which is represented by the labels ( a)-(d ) .",
    "this allows to identify and correlate switching events from individual traps by both the gate dependence and the signal height .",
    "one might expect that the data in fig .",
    "[ fig : s2n ] yield detailed information on capture and escape rates of the traps involved .",
    "however , we have found no correlation between @xmath40 ( or @xmath41 ) and the position relative to the events on the lines in fig .",
    "[ fig : scan2d ] .",
    "this is due to metastability of the states where time constants are exponentially large , as discussed in section  [ sec : discuss ] .",
    "the noise figures of sets are in general determined by input charge noise and the level is proportional to the set gain .",
    "@xcite however , in our case where the operation point ( i.e. gain , island charge ) is kept constant , eliminating the dominant noise dependence , we observe the noise level from background charge fluctuations to clearly depend on the polarization of the surrounding by variation of the gate potentials , as shown in fig .  [",
    "fig : noiselev ] .",
    "top : gray scale plot of noise level @xmath40 of the feedback signal ( in units of @xmath49 , see scale on the right ) as a function of the gate voltages @xmath57 measured on a type b device ( experimentally , @xmath58 is incremented after each consecutive @xmath45 scan ) .",
    "the data are compressed at @xmath59 of the full noise spectrum to enhance visibility .",
    "bottom : background charge switching events for @xmath60 ( same data as above ) .",
    "circles and dots are drawn for up and down gate sweeps , respectively .",
    "signals with negative polarity are omitted for clarity.,title=\"fig:\",width=325 ]   top : gray scale plot of noise level @xmath40 of the feedback signal ( in units of @xmath49 , see scale on the right ) as a function of the gate voltages @xmath57 measured on a type b device ( experimentally , @xmath58 is incremented after each consecutive @xmath45 scan ) .",
    "the data are compressed at @xmath59 of the full noise spectrum to enhance visibility .",
    "bottom : background charge switching events for @xmath60 ( same data as above ) .",
    "circles and dots are drawn for up and down gate sweeps , respectively .",
    "signals with negative polarity are omitted for clarity.,title=\"fig:\",width=325 ]    the large fluctuations ( black dots ) in the upper part of fig .",
    "[ fig : noiselev ] naturally correspond to the events drawn in the lower part where @xmath61 experiences a step response at the transition point and @xmath40 averages over the two level states .",
    "in addition , a significant abrupt change in noise is observed at @xmath62  mv and in the range @xmath63 .",
    "also gradual variations of the noise level as a function of gate potential are measurable . while the onset of higher noise at @xmath64  mv is observed as a unique event with increasing @xmath58 , the features around @xmath65  mv show an interesting combination of noise figure and trap metastability : with increasing @xmath45 the trap alters its charge configuration such that the charge noise seen by the set is reduced . by reversing the g1 sweep direction ,",
    "the noise level is again minimal right before the trap switches back , whereas the gate voltage threshold of that transition is lower .    the transition at @xmath62  mv in the upper plot of fig .",
    "[ fig : noiselev ] does not show switching events in the lower plot .",
    "this is , besides an apparent insensitivity of that trap to @xmath45 , an artefact of the measurement procedure : @xmath58 is incremented at the end of an @xmath45 sweep , therefore transitions dominated by @xmath58 occur only at the turning points , i.e.  the @xmath45 extrema , and are not drawn in the plots .",
    "while most of the measurements have been performed with the set in the normal state , we have also carried out test experiments in the superconducting state to investigate reproducibility . in none of the cases",
    "have we found any difference in feedback response between normal and superconducting devices . nor",
    "did we find any indication of magnetic field dependence ( for normal state set with @xmath66  t ) .",
    "a further important observation is the independence of the experimental results from the biasing conditions , i.e.  the source - drain voltage , neither on magnitude nor on polarity .",
    "this has been reported already in ref .  .",
    "the electric field within a thin tunnel junction changes drastically upon small variation of the source - drain voltage , which should yield a clearly observable effect in case of trap polarization inside the junction .",
    "in contrast , the surrounding is hardly influenced for comparable voltages ranging within the coulomb gap ( on the order of 1  mv ) .",
    "finally , it s worth noticing an interesting experimental fact we additionally discovered during measurements : when accurately determining the coulomb blockade peak positions and calculating the nearest neighbor peak spacings @xmath67 ( which are theoretically expected to be exactly @xmath68 ) , we observed an increased statistical variation of @xmath67 for measurements with gates at larger distance , i.e  lower @xmath69 .",
    "this is at first sight counter intuitive , because voltage noise @xmath70 ( from readout electronics or noise on the cables ) at the gates with lower @xmath69 should have much less effect on the set island than nearby gates , since the image charge influenced on the island is proportional to @xmath71 .",
    "a possible interpretation of the results is related to the trap density of states between island and gate .",
    "the larger the number of charge fluctuators polarizable by the gate variations , the larger the statistical fluctuations sensed by the set island .",
    "the measurements can be considered as a statistical probe of the charged environment in contrast to the experiments with discrete charge switching events . and because a larger voltage variation at more distant gates is required to modulate the set island charge by one electron , more traps in those gate regions experience a transition , which is reflected by increased statistical ( not amplitude ) fluctuations .",
    "although the phenomenon is clearly , consistently and reproducibly observed , it is unfortunately a very small effect ( a few percent ) which does nt permit quantitative analysis yet .",
    "more experiments with specifically designed structures may improve resolution and allow e.g.  determination of a trap density of states .",
    "the invariability of our results upon different biasing conditions ( source - drain voltage , superconducting device ) mentioned right above strongly suggests that the switching processes observed can not reside within the tunnel junctions themselves .",
    "apart from a few exceptions in literature  @xcite where the results were interpreted in terms of trap fluctuations within the tunnel junction , it is generally believed that the dominant low frequency noise source is due to fluctuators located within the substrate or the oxide surrounding the set device .",
    "@xcite    taking this into account , the simplest model to describe the process responsible for the observed charge switching events is a bistable trap ,  @xcite located somewhere close to the set island , where a charge can hop ( or rather tunnel ) between two adjacent sites back and forth .",
    "@xcite this picture is equivalent to a reversible dipole .",
    "phenomenologically the polarity of the charge is in our case of no importance and is nt distinguishable either .",
    "therefore the charge carrier involved is always taken to be an electron for simplicity .",
    "the trap configuration can change by variation of potentials ( i.e.  gate voltages ) , by thermal activation or due to pat .",
    "the results from our experiments are clearly dominated by the potential landscape intentionally modified by the four gates , although other effects may play a role at much smaller energy scales .",
    "for illustration imagine an electron trapped in a local impurity state .",
    "an electric field , which is in our case determined by linear superposition of the potentials of the four gates and the source - island - drain structure , can force that electron to switch to a nearby metastable trap site .",
    "if the electron e.g.  shifts closer to the set island , the latter experiences a charge reduction , which is compensated by a signal from the feedback circuit according to eq .",
    "( [ eq : qoffset ] ) .",
    "this explains geometrically the signal height and polarity of individual fluctuators as presented in section  [ subsubsec : sigheight ] .",
    "the striking reproducibility of switching events as a function of the gate voltages allows detailed analysis of the traps involved .",
    "the data shown in figs .  [ fig : scan2d ] and [ fig : s2n ] nicely illustrate the distinct nature of individual traps . from the lines fitted to the data in fig .",
    "[ fig : scan2d ] it was derived that the events of ( a ) and ( b ) have exactly the same slopes @xmath72 , and they also show the same signal height spectrum in fig .  [",
    "fig : s2n ] .",
    "they are only distinguished by their transition voltage threshold , which depends on gate sweep direction with a specific hysteresis of @xmath73  mv in this case . according to the trapping process ( charging  discharging ) we like to refer to the events represented by circles and dots as flips and flops , respectively .",
    "in contrast to the events ( a ) and ( b ) , the transition thresholds of flips and flops on line ( c ) are indistinguishable , i.e.  displaying a vanishing hysteresis .",
    "yet another behavior is observed for the events on ( d ) which scatter very strongly .",
    "they also show both signal polarities ( but of same magnitude ) , irrespective of gate sweep direction ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : s2n ] ) .",
    "this specific trap is unstable within an unusually broad gate voltage window .",
    "this is probably caused by interactions with other traps in close vicinity , rather than by pure thermal activation or pat which we can exclude due to the large excitation energies required .",
    "in addition to the feasibility of assigning the experimental data as shown in figs .  [",
    "fig : scan2d ] and [ fig : s2n ] to individual traps , we can also make an identification by relating the flip and flop thresholds of the same trap from an experiment as presented in fig .",
    "[ fig : triangle ] .",
    "charge fluctuations with @xmath74 measured with a type b device by increasing the gate scan range with increasing scan number @xmath75 ( only a selected part of the entire measurement is shown ) .",
    "events with negative @xmath41 polarity show similar correlations , but they are omitted for clarity .",
    "the flip and flop thresholds according to transitions of one individual trap can be related by their onset and are denoted by arrows .",
    "the small dots ( grid ) represent every fifth measurement point in @xmath76.,width=325 ]    the measurement in fig .",
    "[ fig : triangle ] , where the gate voltage range is increased with each consecutive sweep , clearly shows that a trap can only switch off ( flop ) if it has also been switched on ( flip ) before , or vice versa .",
    "this is consistent with and suggestive of the single charging nature of the traps observed here .",
    "although some events in fig .  [ fig : triangle ] are detected at the same threshold , i.e.  the flops of ( b ) and ( c ) or the ( a ) flips and the ( d ) flops , we can again easily identify them due to clear distinction in the noise vs.signal height diagram ( like in fig .",
    "[ fig : s2n ] , but not shown in this case ) .",
    "the behavior of the traps in general seems to be only very weakly influenced by other fluctuators .",
    "this is concluded from the straight lines found in measurements like in figs .",
    "[ fig : scan2d ] or [ fig : triangle ] .",
    "the transition threshold is usually not altered irrespective of the polarization strength of the environment ( fig .",
    "[ fig : triangle ] ) , i.e.  there is no difference whether a small or a large gate potential was applied , the trap switching occurs at the same gate voltages .",
    "a rarely clear exception is seen in the events ( f ) in fig .",
    "[ fig : triangle ] , which show slight shifts at the onsets of traps ( a ) and ( e ) , i.e.  for @xmath77 and 26 , respectively .",
    "this suggests a rather small distance of these particular traps among each other allowing electrostatic interaction . in general , however , according to simple electrostatics , charges ( or traps ) in very close vicinity to metallic electrodes are strongly screened .",
    "@xcite the suppressed interaction leads to the observation of individual unperturbed charge trapping events .    from the characteristics of individual traps , i.e.  their transition thresholds as a function of polarization of their environment",
    ", we can not only distinguish but also localize the fluctuators .",
    "variation of two gates electrostatically determines the equipotential line where the trap switching occurs .",
    "the relation of the gate potentials is extracted from the slope @xmath78 of an individual trap as taken e.g.  from fig .",
    "[ fig : scan2d ] .",
    "addition of more gates ( as are actually present in our experiments with the feedback gate and such with static potential ) simply modifies the linear combination of electric potentials involved , allowing to verify the results from experiment and calculations . the exact position ( and size ) of the trap relative to the set island",
    "is then determined by the signal height and polarity .",
    "an estimate for charge variations on the island on the order of @xmath79 shows that the observable traps ( with a typical extension of @xmath80  nm ) must reside in the very close vicinity of the island .",
    "@xcite    we have performed numerical electrostatics calculation ( equipotential lines ) on the device , based on a quasi - threedimensional finite element method ( real twodimensional finite element calculations in the substrate plane with iterative corrections in the third dimension ) .",
    "an example of a potential calculation for the trap events ( a ) and ( b ) of fig .",
    "[ fig : scan2d ] is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : efield ] .",
    "gates g3 , g4 and source - island - drain are at zero potential while gates g1 and g2 are at relative potentials defined by the slope @xmath72 of ( a , b ) .",
    "this yields an equipotential line for zero variation labelled ( a),(b ) .",
    "the white dot ( on the lower right edge of the island , also labelled ( a),(b ) ) finally represents the location of that particular trap .",
    "calculated equipotential lines are also drawn for trap events ( c ) and ( d ) , respectively .",
    "the trap location ( d ) is ambiguous and drawn on both island sides due to not well defined signal polarity ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : s2n ] ) . shows a three dimensional projection on the 2d plane ( or a cut of equipotential surfaces ) .",
    "the lines are effectively neither touching nor crossing the metal .",
    "the trap positions are determined where the lines approach the island at a distance of @xmath81  nm . ]",
    "the potential landscape ( gray scale ) is shown for the slopes ( a , b ) from fig .",
    "[ fig : scan2d ] . calculated equipotential lines for zero variation are drawn for all slopes from that experiment .",
    "the white dots at the edge of the island mark the positions of the fluctuators .",
    "accuracy of the calculated position tangential to the island is numerically estimated to be about 10  nm .",
    "the perpendicular position is given by the signal height and limited to a few nanometers .",
    ", width=325 ]    this intriguing feature to determine the position of individual traps while studying their specific behavior opens up a new method to study the substrate , surface , interface or oxide quality which are of increasing importance in nanostructure devices .",
    "of course , the method is limited by the ability to observe distinct finite slopes in @xmath78 . the majority of the data in fig .",
    "[ fig : noiselev ] is therefore not useful for trap position determination .",
    "the data simply reflects a negligible influence of gate g3 on the measured traps due to screening by other gates in our structure not specifically intended for such experiments .",
    "the problem can easily be resolved by optimized and more sophisticated lithographic design ( e.g.  star - like arrangement of gates to minimize electrostatic screening between traps and set island ) .    on the other hand",
    "we wish to emphasize the possibility to optimize the operation point of a real device like an electron pump or a turnstile by noise analysis as shown in section  [ subsubsec : noise ] .",
    "stable operation of set devices with respect to background charge fluctuations is one of the biggest issues in their implementation into useful circuits . with an appropriate device structure and the method described here we can find the working point of optimum signal to noise ratio or maximize device stability , as required for low noise applications .",
    "the task of hysteresis as observed in our experiments is rather delicate and not fully understood . in general , hysteresis or metastability may be due to asymmetric tunnel barriers , polarization of the proximal environment ( including other traps ) or multiple tunneling processes .",
    "@xcite we are not able to decide on the dominant microscopic origin of the hysteresis measured in our case .",
    "however , our observation of increased fluctuations close to a transition point indicates that there are different energy scales and more than one single mechanism involved .",
    "the time constants of the generation - recombination processes  @xcite are unfortunately , due to hysteresis , either astronomically large , or at scales which are not accessible with our experimental setup ( readout electronics bandwidth @xmath82  khz ) .",
    "the spectrum of hysteresis values ( energy difference between flip and flop ) was found to be flat up to several 100  mv ( i.e.  covering the entire gate sweep range ) .",
    "this prevents us to extract quantitative data on the metastability of the traps which apparently have an average energy spread much larger than is accessibly with our method .",
    "this is also related to the fact that we do not observe periodic multiple charging of the same trap .",
    "probably the trap size and the equivalent capacity are so small that the charging energy can be far above 1  ev .",
    "nevertheless , we can make a very rough estimate of the trap density assuming that all the observed fluctuators reside on the island surface ( i.e.  traps in the oxide covering the island ) .",
    "the island surface facing the gate ( i.e.  perpendicular to the electric field ) has an area of @xmath83  nm .",
    "we measure an extrapolated average of 20 traps per volt of gate variation .",
    "that yields an interface ( or surface ) trap density of 330  ev@xmath84m@xmath85 or roughly @xmath86 .",
    "we believe this is quite a reasonable number and it is well consistent with literature values  @xcite ( although they are given for si , the order of magnitude should be applicable ) .    as a final remark ,",
    "we wish to comment on one possible origin of the charge traps responsible for the switching events .",
    "empirically we have observed significantly less fluctuators in a ` fresh ' device at the very first cool - down compared to measurements after thermal cycling .",
    "this may suggest that the imperfections are ( also ) a consequence of mechanical stress .",
    "the effect of electrical stress on noise characteristics has been reported in ref .  .",
    "we have presented a new experimental method and measurement results on electrometric performance of a modified single  electron device .",
    "the technique allowed to study charge traps individually , exploring the very fluctuators which are responsible for noise and instabilities , severely degrading the operation of mesoscopic electronic devices .",
    "in particular , the charge background was investigated by scanning different gates simultaneously and recording abrupt changes of the set island polarization .",
    "the experimental results were highly reproducible and therefore allowed extensive systematic studies .",
    "we were able to distinguish switching processes due to individual charge traps .",
    "the knowledge of trap transition threshold and signal height allowed to geometrically determine the trap position , which was typically not more than a few nanometers away from the island surface .",
    "the tangential accuracy of the analysis was estimated to be about 10  nm .",
    "this provides an alternative method to e.g.  scanning imaging experiments  @xcite for local investigation of trapping processes .",
    "the noise level of the set device was found to depend on the environment polarization due to gate potential variations .",
    "the reproducible experiments offer a method to determine the noise characteristics of the set and to adjust the operation point for maximum signal to noise or best device stability .",
    "it is particularly advantageous that the testing of the charge background is performed with the same working device , i.e.  optimization detector and subsequent application device are the same .",
    "the fluctuators observed in the experiments are exclusively located in the close vicinity of the set island , i.e.  in the oxide covering the island or in the substrate . in the former case",
    "we have roughly estimated a trap density of @xmath86 , which compares very well with literature values .",
    "d.  v.  averin and k.  k.  likharev , in _ mesoscopic phenomena in solids _ , edited by b.  a.  altshuler , p.  a.  lee , and r.  a.  webb , 173 - 271 ( elsevier , amsterdam , 1991 ) ; _ single charge tunneling : coulomb blockade phenomena in nanostructures _ , edited by h.  grabert and m.  h.  devoret , nato asi series b * 294 * ( plenum , new york , 1992 ) .",
    "g.  zimmerli , t.  m.  eiles , r.  l.  kautz , and j.  m.  martinis , * 61 * , 237 ( 1992 ) ; a.  b.  zorin , f .- j .",
    "ahlers , j.  niemeyer , t.  weimann , h.  wolf , v.  a.  krupenin , and s.  v.  lotkhov , * 53 * , 13682 ( 1996 ) ; n.  m.  zimmerman , j.  l.  cobb , and a.  f.  clark , * 56 * , 7675 ( 1997 ) ; a.  n.  tavkhelidze and j.  mygind , j.  appl .",
    "* 83 * * , 310 ( 1998 ) ; v.  a.  krupenin , d.  e.  presnov , m.  n.  savvateev , h.  scherer , a.  b.  zorin , and j.  niemeyer , j.  appl .",
    "* 84 * * , 3212 ( 1998 ) ; d.  e.  grupp , t.  zhang , g.  j.  dolan , and n.  s.  wingreen , * 87 * , 186805 ( 2001 ) .    d.  song , a.  amar , c.  j.  lobb , and f.  c.  wellstood , ieee trans .",
    "supercond .  * 5 * , 3085 ( 1995 ) ; m.  kenyon , j.  l.  cobb , a.  amar , d.  song , n.  m.  zimmerman , c.  j.  lobb , and f.  c.  wellstood , j.  low temp .",
    "phys .  * * 123 * * , 103 ( 2001 ) .    k.  s.  ralls et al .",
    ", * 52 * , 228 ( 1984 ) ; d.  h.  cobden , n.  k.  patel , m.  pepper , d.  a.  ritchie , j.  e.  f.  frost , and g.  a.  c.  jones , * 44 * , 1938 ( 1991 ) ; t.  sakamoto and k.  nakamura , superlatt .",
    "microstructures * 23 * , 413 ( 1998 ) ; m.  g.  peters , j.  i.  dijkhuis , and l.  w.  molenkamp , j.  appl .  phys .  *",
    "* 86 * * , 1523 ( 1999 ) .",
    "h.  pothier , p.  lafarge , p.  f.  orfila , c.  urbina , d.  esteve , and m.  h.  devoret , physica b * * 169 * * , 573 ( 1991 ) ; h.  pothier , p.  lafarge , c.  urbina , d.  esteve , and m.  h.  devoret , europhys .",
    "* 17 * * , 249 ( 1992 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> background charge fluctuators are studied individually by means of a modified single  </S>",
    "<S> electron pump . </S>",
    "<S> operation of the device in a feedback mode allows electrometric sensing of the charged background and its behavior upon electric potential variations due to geometrically different gates . </S>",
    "<S> pulse height spectra and hysteresis of charge trapping transitions are discussed as a specific signature of distinct fluctuators . </S>",
    "<S> the location of individual traps is determined from the experimental data and based on electrostatic calculations . </S>"
  ]
}