{
  "article_text": [
    "the development of the complete active space self - consistent field ( casscf ) method by bjrn roos group @xcite was a milestone in the development of electronic - structure methods effecting a rigorous treatment of electron correlation in molecules . in particular in the case of nearly degenerate states , i.e. , in regions of the potential curve , where static correlation prevails , a casscf is almost indispensable for a good zero - order description of the electronic wave function , which usually is subsequently refined by methods like mrci ( multi - reference ci ) or caspt2 ( second order perturbation theory based on a cas reference state)@xcite .",
    "the latter methods focus on dynamic correlation and are mandatory for achieving quantitative agreement with experiment .",
    "a frequently studied test system for the quantitative calculation of electron correlation effects in molecules is the ionic ",
    "neutral avoided crossing in the potential curves of alkaline halogenides , in particular of lif @xcite .",
    "the goal of these benchmark studies is the development of a computational protocol which provides a globally accurate description of the system even though the wave functions change dramatically transversing the avoided crossing .",
    "new ab initio methods for the treatment of correlation should prove to provide a satisfactory description of the two states in question , and the present paper is devoted to the application of the quantum - chemistry density matrix renormalization group ( qc - dmrg ) to calculate the potential energy curve and the dipole - moment functions in the vicinity of the ionic ",
    "covalent avoided crossing in lif .    since its first application on the water molecule @xcite the qc - dmrg algorithm has become an alternative candidate to treat the electron ",
    "electron correlation in atoms and molecules in a rigorous way .",
    "the method has already been applied successfully to calculate the ground state energy of various molecules containing up to 57 orbitals @xcite , demonstrating the capability of the method to provide the full - ci results .",
    "the general trend of the accuracy of the first and second excited states calculated by the method and its strong connection to the structure of the reduced subsystem density matrix has also been studied in detail on molecules with various fraction of filling and orbitals @xcite .",
    "although results of dmrg calculations seem promising , it is still an open question to determine the stability and performance of the new method for systems in which the wave function character changes as a function of bond length , especially in the region of an avoided crossing .    in order to provide a benchmark test of the qc - dmrg algorithm for an ionic",
    "neutral potential curve crossing , we have calculated the two lowest @xmath0 states of lif .",
    "this system has been subject of various earlier theoretical studies @xcite .",
    "kahn , hay and shavitt @xcite calculated the four lowest @xmath0 states using the configuration - interaction ( ci ) methods .",
    "the dipole moment function for the lowest @xmath0 states was studied by werner and meyer @xcite using mcscf wave functions . the remaining discrepancy between their results and the empirical estimate of grice and herschbach @xcite",
    "was finally resolved by bauschlicher and langhoff who have employed full configuration interaction calculations to define a protocol using an mrci approach based on carefully constructed casscf orbitals , which was found to satisfactorily represent the fci potential and dipole moment curves for the two lowest @xmath0 states of lif .",
    "problems encountered in the application of caspt2 @xcite have been recently resolved on occasion of the development of multi - state caspt2 @xcite .",
    "our aim in this paper is to assess the stability of the qc - dmrg method in the region of an avoided crossing and show that qc - dmrg provides the fci energy within an error set up in advance of the calculation for all bond lengths . taking the dipole moment as an example , we present a general qc - dmrg procedure to obtain expectation values of first order - properties for the ground and excited states in molecules using the dmrg method . to the best of our knowledge ,",
    "this is the first time that excited - state data and properties have been calculated for a molecule in the framework of _ ab initio _ qc - dmrg .",
    "the setup of the paper is as follows . in sec .",
    "ii we briefly describe the main steps of dmrg and the details of the numerical procedure used to determine the appropriate ordering and target state .",
    "iii contains the numerical results and analysis of the observed trends of the numerical error .",
    "the summary of our conclusions is presented in sec .",
    "detailed description of the dmrg algorithm can be found in the original papers @xcite and its application in the context of quantum chemistry is summarized in three recently published papers @xcite .",
    "therefore , we present only the most important formulas and definitions that are relevant to the question of current interest .      in the context of quantum chemistry",
    "a one - dimensional chain that is studied by dmrg is built up from the molecular orbitals that were obtained , e.g. , in a suitable mean - field or mcscf calculation .",
    "the electron ",
    "electron correlation is taken into account by an iterative procedure that minimizes the rayleigh quotient corresponding to the hamiltonian describing the electronic structure of the molecule , given by @xmath1 and thus determines the full ci wavefunction . in eq .",
    "( [ eq : ham ] ) , @xmath2 denotes the matrix elements between orthogonal molecular orbitals \\{@xmath3 } of the one - particle hamiltonian comprising kinetic energy and the external electric field of the nuclei , while @xmath4 stands for the matrix elements of the electron repulsion operator and is defined as    @xmath5      the desired eigenstate of the hamiltonian that one wants to calculate is called the _ the target state _ in the context of dmrg .",
    "the representation of such state in the dmrg procedure is derived from an arrangement of molecular orbitals in a linear chain , which in turn is divided into smaller subsystems and the wave function of the molecule is built up from the linear combination of basis states representing these subsystems .    according to fig .",
    "[ fig : dmrg ] the structure of the subsystems that is called _ superblock _ configuration is defined as @xmath6 , where @xmath7 and @xmath8 represents a block containing @xmath9 and @xmath10 molecular orbitals , respectively , and the @xmath11 denotes an orbital , in dmrg terminology a quantum site with @xmath12 degrees of freedom . in our case @xmath12 is equal to four , enumerating the doubly occupied , spin up , spin down and empty orbital situation . since the number of molecular orbitals ( @xmath13 ) is constant , it can be expressed as @xmath14 .",
    "the @xmath7 block is represented by @xmath15 so - called renormalized block basis states ( @xmath16 ) , and each block state represents a special distribution of a given number of electrons with up and down spins on the @xmath9 orbitals .",
    "the same holds for @xmath8 with @xmath17 block states .        in order to recover interactions of electrons in orbitals that are far away from each other in the chain and include their contribution to the correlation energy , the size of the left block",
    "is increased as long as @xmath18 and the length of the right block is decreased so that @xmath19 always holds .",
    "this iterative procedure is repeated in the reverse way as well , until @xmath20 and @xmath21 as is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : dmrg ] .",
    "this sweeping procedure implies that in each dmrg iteration step the hamilton operator is constructed on a given superblock configuration and the wave function of the molecule is built up from the linear combination of the subsystem basis states with coefficients determined by diagonalizing the superblock hamilton operator .",
    "if @xmath22 and @xmath23 denote basis states for @xmath24 and @xmath25 subsystems , respectively , then the @xmath26th eigenstate is written as @xmath27 where @xmath28 is determined by diagonalization of the superblock hamiltonian . in the simplest situation ,",
    "the target state of the dmrg method that we want to calculate is one of the eigenstates of the hamilton operator and can be usually determined with a good accuracy if the eigenstates are well separated .    as second key ingredient of the dmrg method is the selection of the block states for a subsequent iteration step .",
    "the @xmath29 block states are chosen from the eigenstates ( @xmath30 ) of the reduced density matrix of the @xmath24 subsystem , that is constructed for the target state as @xmath31 the error of the truncation procedure is measured by means of the deviation of the total weight of the selected states from unity which is defined as @xmath32 as is was shown in ref .",
    "the accuracy of the dmrg calculation can be controlled by keeping the truncation error below a given treshold @xmath33 and the number of block states above a minimum value @xmath34 which avoids the iterative procedure being trapped by local attractors .",
    "it is thus evident , that the construction of the target state has strong effect on the structure of the subsystem density matrix , on the block states used during all the subsequent iteration steps and on the converging properites of the dmrg method .",
    "if the target state does not contain those basis states that are important to represent the desired electronic configuration at a given bond length , the method can converge to a wrong state by loosing the optimum structure of the target state .",
    "this has long been confirmed by various dmrg studies and the problem can be solved by constructing target states by coherent superposition of more eigenstates , in which case @xmath35 the weights are usually taken as @xmath36 for all @xmath26 .",
    "another possibility to construct block states for the subsequent iteration step is first constructing the reduced subsystem density matrices for all eigenstates independently and than add them up , in which case the density matrix for an incoherent target states is defined as @xmath37 where again , @xmath36 could be introduced .",
    "the construction of coherent or incoherent superpositions for targeting several excited states simultaneously is the the dmrg counterpart of the construction of averaged - states orbitals in a casscf calculation in order to obtain an optimal description of several many - particle states at the same time .      in the qc - dmrg algorithm block states representing a given number of electron with up and down spins",
    "are identified with @xmath38 and @xmath39 quantum numbers .",
    "these are used in order to select out the proper combination of block basis states for the total system described in a given @xmath40 spin sector . in a straightforward application of the dmrg method",
    "the first few eigenvalues of each @xmath41 spin sector are determined and the classification of the singlet , triplet , quintet etc .",
    "levels can be accomplished based on the degeneracy of the levels .",
    "it is , however , often difficult to determine whether two close - lying energy calculated in two different @xmath41 sectors are two components of the same level or not .",
    "this can be resolved by classifying the block states with respect to the irreducible representations of as many symmetry groups as possible in order to make use of their direct product in targeting the right quantum states .    in our present implementation",
    "we use apart from the particle number operator and the @xmath42 operator also the spin reflection operator , which enables us to separate the triplet manifold from the singlet manifold by targetting the states of appropriate parity of their spin part .",
    "obvious extensions in future work would be the implementation of the point - group symmetry of the molecule and the @xmath43 operator .      in the dmrg procedure the expectation value of the one electron operators can be calculated from the one - particle density matrix according to @xmath44 where @xmath45 is an @xmath13 by @xmath13 matrix of the operator for a first - order property , in the same one - particle basis that was used to construct the original @xmath2 and @xmath4 .",
    "once the target state was obtained , the one particle subsystem reduced density matrix @xmath46 can be formed for any @xmath24 configuration as @xmath47 where @xmath48 , @xmath49 denote sites in the left block .",
    "the one - particle density matrix for the right block is determined in a similar way .",
    "if @xmath48 is in the left block and @xmath49 in the right block , then @xmath50 is constructed from the one - particle operators of the two blocks .",
    "comparing with the benchmark full - ci calculation of bauschlicher and langhoff @xcite we have correlated six electrons of the lif molecule by the qc - dmrg method on a chain built up from 25 casscf orbitals . the active space used to determine",
    "the latter contains two @xmath51 orbitals and no @xmath52 or @xmath53 orbitals .",
    "the molpro program @xcite was used to prepare the @xmath2 and @xmath4 matrix elements in this basis .    the gaussian basis set used for lithium",
    "was derived from the ( 9@xmath54 ) primitive set of huzinaga @xcite , supplemented by the ( 4@xmath55 ) functions optimized for the @xmath56 state as in ref .  .",
    "the @xmath54 and @xmath55 primitives are contracted ( 5211 ) and ( 31 ) , respectively .",
    "the f basis set is the dunning @xcite [ @xmath57 contraction of the huzinaga @xcite ( @xmath58 ) primitive set . to describe @xmath59 , a diffuse 2@xmath55 and a 3@xmath60 polarization function",
    "are added ; the exponents are 0.08 and 1.4 , respectively .",
    "it has become evident that the efficiency and accuracy of the qc - dmrg method depends strongly on the ordering of the orbitals @xcite .",
    "since this question is still an open field of research , we have repeated our previous calculations on h@xmath61o , ch@xmath61 and f@xmath61 molecules in order to determine a strategy for the best ordering for lif .",
    "we have applied various algorithms which reorder the row and column indices of a sparse matrix in a way such that off - diagonal elements are moved closer to the diagonal or to one corner of the matrix . extending the work of chan and head - gordon @xcite , we have included a criterion based on the fock operator as well as their originally proposed criterion based on @xmath2 .",
    "thus we applied the reordering algorithms to the @xmath62 matrix in order to include some components of the electron ",
    "electron interaction term as well . in the reordering process , we have neglected terms of @xmath63 below a certain threshold in order to pick up only the most important components . of course , this procedure is useful only in the case of orbitals differing from hartree ",
    "fock orbitals , because for the latter @xmath63 is diagonal .    in agreement with the work of chan and head - gordon we have found that a particularly satisfactory ordering can be achieved by using the cuthill - mckee method @xcite . as a benchmark test , in case of f@xmath61 molecule with @xmath64 and @xmath65 parameter sets a @xmath66 in absolute error of the ground state energy was reached with @xmath671100 states , in contrast to our previous results @xcite when the same accuracy was reached with 17001800 block states .",
    "in addition , the number of sweeps was reduced by a factor of two .",
    "similar results were found in the other test cases as well .",
    "thus we can conclude that moving the off - diagonal elements closer to the diagonal with the cuthill - mckee algorithm reduces the number of block states and accelerates the speed of convergence .",
    "it is worth to note , that this protocol is only expected to give good results if a mean - field description of the system is reasonable , i.e. , in weakly correlated cases .",
    "based on our observations , we have applied the cuthill - mckee method on the one - electron @xmath63 interaction matrix to determine the ordering configuration for lif for all the different bond lengths .",
    "we have found the same ordering at both sides of the avoided crossing ; the orbital ordering which we used in our calculations is detailed in table  [ ordering ] .",
    "it has been shown in ref .   that the accuracy of the qc - dmrg method can be controlled by method which we called dynamic block state selection ( dbss ) approach , whereby the desired accuracy can be predetermined in advance of the calculations .",
    "based on the full - ci energies calculated at several points on the potential curve we can infer that the smallest value of the energy gap close to the avoided crossing is in the order of @xmath68 , thus it is sufficient to obtain an accuracy of @xmath69 in the absolute error of the energy levels . in case of the lif molecule represented with the given basis states this means a relative error of @xmath66 , thus the parameter that controls",
    "the maximum value of the truncation error has been set to @xmath70 .",
    "for the minimum number of block states ( @xmath34 ) a few hundred states would be sufficient .",
    "we have made several test calculations with the above parameter set and found that the relative error indeed converged to @xmath66 .",
    "as an example of the linear relationship between the relative error and the truncation error we have plotted our results obtained for various values of @xmath33 parameter close to the avoided crossing ( @xmath71 a.u . ) in fig .",
    "[ fig : lif_scale ] .        on the other hand , in order to provide a better benchmark test , we have also used a smaller value of @xmath33 for most of our calculations .",
    "we have set @xmath33 to @xmath72 which ensures an absolute error of @xmath70 for the lowest energy state of a given @xmath41 spin sector .",
    "the accuracy of the excited state energies , on the other hand , can depend strongly on other parameters and the construction of the target state which will be examined in detail in the next section .",
    "we have carried out a detailed dmrg study of the absolute error of the ground and several excited state energies and the dipole moment as a function of bond length , focusing on the avoided crossing , where the wavefunction and also the convergence properties of dmrg is expected to change rapidly .      according to our previous study @xcite",
    "first we ran a calculation with @xmath73 block states and repeated the same calculation with @xmath65 .",
    "we have found that using the cuthill - mckee reordered orbital configuration the desired accuracy was achieved with the smaller @xmath34 value as well , thus we have carried out all of our calculations with the latter value .",
    "this in fact sped up the calculation significantly reducing the computational time to an order of an hour on a standard pc running at 1.5 ghz .",
    "we have found that the desired accuracy of the ground state was achieved for all bond lengths , even close to the avoided crossing . as an example we have plotted in fig .",
    "[ fig : energy ] the relative error of the ground state energy as a function of the dmrg iteration steps at various bond lengths .",
    "it can be seen that the relative error of the ground state energy converges to @xmath72 in all cases .",
    "the speed of convergence , however , is slower closer to the avoided crossing as expected be because of the smaller gap and longer coherence length .",
    "we have also found that the largest numbers of the block states ( @xmath74 ) generated dynamically fell in the range of 150200 at the equilibrium point , while it was slightly larger ( 400500 ) close to the avoided crossing .      in order to determine higher - lying excited states ,",
    "we have used the spin flip operator to separate the singlet and triplet components .",
    "we have found that the first excited state ( @xmath75 ) is the lowest state of the even spin symmetry sector at small bond distances and exhibits the same convergence property as the ground state .",
    "targeting the second level of the odd spin symmetry sector provided the @xmath76 level at the equilibrium point at @xmath77 up to six digits , as expected .",
    "we have also targeted higher - lying levels to obtain the second @xmath0 state , but the convergence of the method was much slower .",
    "targeting the second level of the even spin sector for increasing bond lengths , we have found that the target state can be lost when @xmath78 is close to the avoided crossing .",
    "this is , in fact , not unexpected , and we made use of coherent and incoherent target states in order to resolve the problem .",
    "in addition , to provide better stability of dmrg it is advantageous to use larger values of @xmath34 , thus we have set it to 200300 . using the incoherent target states method ,",
    "the @xmath0 state was also determined within an accuracy of @xmath70 for all bond lengths .",
    "our result for the obtained potential curve is plotted on fig .",
    "[ fig : lif_pot ] , which agrees up to six digits with the full - ci result , also given in table  [ table : energy ] .",
    "bauschlicher and langhoff have pointed out that a careful selection of the casscf space used in the determination of the orbitals for the mrci treatment is mandatory in order to get close agreement with fci results . by contrast",
    ", we have found that routine methods for the determination of the orbital basis are adequate in our dmrg treatment .",
    "indeed , hartree  fock orbitals yielded practically the same results , corroborating the view that dmrg treatments can be effectively converged to the full ci result .",
    "we have also calculated the energy levels of the @xmath79 sectors and found that the the residual splitting of the @xmath80 components of the triplet level was as low as @xmath81 a.u .",
    "we have calculated the one - particle density matrix and the dipole moment for the various bond lengths . the dipole moment function is obtained as a smooth curve close to the full - ci result .",
    "note that especially the determination of the dipole moment curve in the vicinity of the avoided crossing proved very difficult in case of approximate methods of standard quantum chemistry .",
    "no special parameters are used in the dmrg calculation , i.e. , it may be used as a ` black box ' method , whereas considerable skill is required to choose the appropriate casscf parameters necessary to obtain satisfactory orbitals for an mrci treatment .",
    "the absolute error of the dipole moment function was @xmath82 at the equilibrium point and the largest error of the order of @xmath68 was found at @xmath71 a.u .",
    "our results for the ground and excited states are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : dipole1 ] and detailed in table  [ table : dipole ] .          within the framework of the configuration interaction method",
    "the number of slater determinants included in the treatment is increased systematically in order to achieve a better accuracy .",
    "thus the wavefunction is improved by adding in turn single , double and higher excitations .",
    "on the other hand , the coupled cluster procedure includes higher excitations in a different fashion , adding excitations of a very limited kind ( namely the unlinked clusters ) at a very early stage of approximation .",
    "by contrast , dmrg takes into account excitations even of higher excitation classes at the very beginning , picking up the most important ones by minimizing the energy .",
    "this means that if the accuracy of the calculation is lowered , the structure of the wave function is retained in essence . to demonstrate this ,",
    "we have recalculated the ground state energies and the dipole moment with @xmath83 and found that the dipole moment function is still a continuous function even close to the avoided crossing .",
    "the relative error of the ground state energy was found to converge to @xmath82 and the dipole moment to @xmath69 at @xmath78=11.5 a.u .",
    "repeating the same calculation by cutting the parameters drastically and using @xmath84 and @xmath85 , the dipole moment is still a continuous curve but it deviates more significantly from the fci results especially close to the avoided crossing ( fig .",
    "[ fig : dipole2 ] ) .",
    "this simply means that some of the important components of the wave function are lost at the very beginning , which is of particular importance at the avoided crossing .",
    "parameter . ]",
    "we have studied the low - lying energy spectrum of lif molecule by the quantum chemistry version of dmrg in order to demonstrate the efficiency of the method in the vicinity of an avoided crossing .",
    "besides calculating the ground and several excited states energies , we have obtained the dipole moment function as well .",
    "several technical aspects of the qc - dmrg method were further studied .",
    "we have extended the application of the dynamic block state approach and the study of optimal ordering configuration of molecular orbitals .",
    "we have found that reordering the molecular orbitals with the cuthill - mckee algorithm applied on the @xmath2 matrix elements or the fock matrix the same accuracy compared to an ordering based on the orbital energy can be achieved with a smaller minimum number of block states ( @xmath34 ) .",
    "the qc - dmrg procedure selects out a significantly smaller number of block states , @xmath74 , and the number of iteration steps is reduced .",
    "in addition , we have shown the efficiency and stability of the dynamic block state selection approach which in fact reduces the computational time significantly .",
    "it turns out that the desired accuracy of the lowest states of each spin symmetry sector can be achieved for all bond lengths by targeting that particular state . on the other hand , calculating higher - lying levels close to the avoided crossing , coherent or incoherent superpositions of target states have to be constructed in order to provide stability and convergence .",
    "since this has no significant effect on calculations far away from the avoided crossing where the energy gap is large , this method can be used for the whole range of bond lengths .    the dipole moment calculated by dmrg",
    "can also be determined with good accuracy for all bond lengths and in fact it is a continuous curve even close to the avoided crossing .",
    "we have found that adjusting the desired accuracy of the calculation affects the accuracy the dipole moment , but the dipole moment function remains a continuous curve .",
    "this demonstrates the power of dmrg in quantum chemistry , since the structure of wavefunction does not change significantly for lower accuracy , namely the most important configurations are picked up even with lower accuracy .",
    "as far as the technical questions are considered , using reordered orbitals and the dbss approach qc - dmrg calculation time was found to be within the order of magnitude of the fci calculation if point - group symmetries are not used .",
    "although the point group symmetry is not built in our present implementation of the dmrg method , the structure of the @xmath4 matrix reflects the symmetry , and the number of nonzero matrix elements is reduced significantly .",
    "this research was supported in part by the fonds der chemischen industrie and the hungarian research fund ( otka ) grant no .",
    "30173 and 32231 .",
    "the authors also thank christian kollmar for providing fci results for the dipole moment function .                                                      , bernhardsson , a. , berning , a. , celani , p. , cooper , d.  l. , deegan , m. j.  o. , dobbyn , a.  j. , eckert , f. , hampel , c. , hetzer , g. , knowles , p.  j. , korona , t. , lindh , r. , lloyd , a.  w. , , s.  j. , manby , f.  r. , meyer , w. , mura , m.  e. , nicklass , a. , palmieri , p. , pitzer , r. , rauhut , g. , , m. , schumann , u. , stoll , h. , stone , a.  j. , tarroni , r. , thorsteinsson , t. , and werner , h .- j . ,",
    "molpro , a package of ab initio programs designed by h .- j .",
    "werner and p.  j. knowles , version 2002.1 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have studied the ionic  </S>",
    "<S> neutral curve crossing between the two lowest @xmath0 states of lif in order to demonstrate the efficiency of the quantum chemistry version of the density matrix renormalization group method ( qc - dmrg ) . </S>",
    "<S> we show that qc - dmrg is capable to calculate the ground and several low - lying excited state energies within the error margin set up in advance of the calculation , while with standard quantum chemical methods it is difficult to obtain a good approximation to full ci property values at the point of the avoided crossing . </S>",
    "<S> we have calculated the dipole moment as a function of bond length , which in fact provides a smooth and continuous curve even close to the avoided crossing , in contrast to other standard numerical treatments .    -8pt </S>"
  ]
}