{
  "article_text": [
    "with the development of new ideas and tools of analysis , physics has lately strongly contributed to a functional understanding of the structure of complex real world networks .",
    "a key insight of this research has been the discovery of surprising structural similarities in seemingly very different networks , ranging from internet technology to cell biology .",
    "see @xcite for an overview .",
    "remarkably , many real world networks show power - law ( scale free ) degree distributions and feature a certain pattern of cliquishness , quantified by the _ clustering coefficient_. many also exhibit a so called _ small world phenomenon _ , meaning that the average shortest path between any two vertices (  degrees of separation  ) in the network can be surprisingly small .",
    "maybe one of the most important contributions to recent network theory is an interpretation of these network parameters with respect to stability , robustness , and efficiency of an underlying system . from this perspective",
    "financial networks are a natural candidate to study .",
    "the financial world can be thought of as a set of intermediaries i.e. banks who interact with each other through financial transactions .",
    "these interactions are governed by a set of rules and regulations , and take place on an interaction graph of all connections between financial intermediaries .",
    "financial crises i.e. the incapacity to finance businesses and industries have recently hit several countries all around the globe .",
    "these events have triggered a boom of papers on banking - crises , financial risk - analysis and numerous policy initiatives to find and understand the weak - points of the financial system .",
    "one of the major concerns in these debates is the danger of so called _ systemic risk _ : the large scale breakdown of financial intermediation due to domino effects of insolvency @xcite .",
    "the network of mutual credit relations between financial institutions is supposed to play a key role in the risk for contagious defaults .    in the past the theoretical economic literature on contagion @xcite suggest network topologies that might be interesting to look at . in @xcite",
    "it is suggested to study a complete graph of mutual liabilities .",
    "the properties of a banking system with this structure is then compared to properties of systems with non complete networks . in @xcite a set of different network structures is studied .",
    "however , so far surprisingly little is known about the _",
    "actual _ empirical network topology of mutual credit relations between financial institutions .    in a recent paper we have for the first time analyzed empirical data to reconstruct the banking network of austria @xcite .",
    "here we characterized the interbank network by the liability ( or exposure ) matrix @xmath0 .",
    "the entries @xmath1 are the liabilities bank @xmath2 has towards bank @xmath3 .",
    "@xmath0 is a square matrix but not necessarily symmetric .",
    "we showed that the liability ( @xmath1 ) size distribution follows a power law , which can be understood as being driven by underlying size and wealth distributions of the banks , which show similar power exponents .",
    "we find that the interbank network shows  like many other realistic networks  power law dependencies in the degree distributions .",
    "we could show that different scaling exponents within the same distribution relate to different hierarchy levels in sub - networks ( sectors ) within the total network .",
    "the scaling exponents by the agricultural banks are very low , due to the hierarchical structure of this sector , while the other banks lead to scaling exponents of sizes also found in other complex real world networks .",
    "the interbank network shows a low clustering coefficient , a result that mirrors the analysis of community structure which shows a clear network pattern , where banks would first have links with their head institution , whereas these few head institutions hold links among each other .",
    "a consequence of this structure is that the interbank network is a small world with a very low  degree of separation  between any two nodes in the system .",
    "the knowledge of the detailed structure of the interbank topology enables us to use it as an input for a contagion - flow model @xcite , which is the main idea of this paper . unlike previous research where we studied random flow on structured networks @xcite",
    ", here we follow the flow of payments uniquely determined by the structure of the liability matrix .",
    "we use this flow to perform stress tests to the system by artificially changing external financial parameters like interest rates , exchange rates etc . , mimicking conditions and  global  events which are beyond the influence of banks . by doing this",
    "we can answer questions about the stability of the financial system with respect to external shocks , in particular , which banks are likely to default due to shocks , and which banks will drag other banks into default due to their mutual credit relations ( contagion ) .    in the following we are looking for the bilateral liability matrix @xmath0 of all ( about @xmath4 ) austrian banks , the central bank ( oenb ) and an aggregated foreign banking sector .",
    "our data consists of 10 @xmath0 matrices each representing liabilities for quarterly single month periods between @xmath5 and @xmath6 .",
    "t obtain these data , we draw upon two major sources from the austrian central bank : the austrian bank balance sheet data base ( maus ) and the major loan register ( gke ) . the austrian banking system has a sectoral organization due to historic reasons .",
    "banks belong to one of seven sectors : savings banks ( s ) , raiffeisen ( agricultural ) banks ( r ) , volksbanken ( vb ) , joint stock banks ( js ) , state mortgage banks ( sm ) , housing construction savings and loan associations ( hcl ) , and special purpose banks ( sp ) .",
    "banks have to break down their balance sheet reports on claims and liabilities with other banks according to the different banking sectors , central bank and foreign banks .",
    "this practice of reporting on balance interbank positions breaks the liability matrix @xmath0 down to blocks of sub - matrices for the individual sectors .",
    "banks with a head institution have to disclose their positions with the head institution , which gives additional information on @xmath0 .",
    "since many banks in the system hold interbank liabilities only with their head institutions , one can pin down many entries in the @xmath0 matrix exactly .",
    "this information is combined with the data from the major loans register of oenb .",
    "this register contains all interbank loans above a threshold of 360 000 euro .",
    "this information provides us with a set of constraints and zero restrictions for individual entries @xmath1 . up to this point",
    "one can obtain about @xmath7 of the @xmath0-matrix entries exactly . for the rest we employ entropy maximization method @xcite .",
    "the estimation problem can be set up as a standard convex optimization problem : assume we have a total of @xmath8 constraints .",
    "the column and row constraints take the form @xmath9 and @xmath10 with @xmath11 denoting _ row _ and @xmath12 denoting _ column_. constraints imposed by the knowledge about particular entries in @xmath1 are given by @xmath13 for some @xmath14 the aim is to find the matrix @xmath0 that has the least discrepancy to some a priori matrix @xmath15 with respect to the ( generalized ) cross entropy measure @xmath16 @xmath15 is the matrix which contains all known exact liability entries . for those entries ( bank pairs )",
    "@xmath17 where we have no knowledge from central bank data , we set @xmath18 .",
    "we use the convention that @xmath19 whenever @xmath20 and define @xmath21 to be @xmath22 . as a result",
    "we obtain a rather precise picture of the interbank relations at a particular point in time . given @xmath0 we find that the distribution of liabilities follows a power law for more than three decades with an exponent of @xmath23 @xcite . to extract the network topology from these data , for the present purposes we ignore directions and define an undirected but weighted adjacency matrix @xmath24 , which measures the gross interbank interaction , i.e. the total volume of liabilities and assets for each node .",
    "we next test the validity of our estimate of @xmath0 , by computing the implied community structure and then comparing it to the known real bank - clusters , i.e. the sectors .",
    "there exist various ways to find functional clusters within a given network . in @xcite",
    "an algorithm was introduced which  while having at least the same performance rates as @xcite  provides an additional measure for the differences of cluster , the so - called dissimilarity index .",
    "for analyzing our interbank network we apply this latter algorithm to the weighted adjacency matrix @xmath25 . as the only preprocessing step we clip all entries in @xmath25 above a level of 300 m euro for numerical reasons , i.e. @xmath26 . the community structure obtained in this way",
    "can be compared to the actual community structure in the real world .    [ cols=\"^,^,^ \" , ]     [ table ]",
    "the given banking system is very stable and default events that could be classified as a `` systemic crisis '' are unlikely .",
    "we find that the mean default probability of an austrian bank to be below one percent .",
    "perhaps the most interesting finding is that only a small fraction of bank defaults can be interpreted as _",
    "contagious_. the vast majority of defaults is a direct consequence of macroeconomic shocks . more specifically , we find the median endogenous recovery rates to be @xmath27 , and we show that the given banking system is quite stable to shocks from losses in foreign counterparty exposure and we find no clear evidence that the interbank market either increases correlations among banks or enables banks to diversify risk .",
    "using our model as a simulation tool , we show that market share in the interbank market alone is not a good predictor of the relevance of a bank for the banking system in terms of contagion risk . table [ table ] shows the decomposition of simulation scenarios with and without contagion following a fundamental default of a given number of banks . the simulation is run under the assumption that there is a recovery rate of 50% of loans to non banks and that the full value of an insolvent institution is transferred to the creditors .",
    "clearing is done after the netting of interbank claims in @xmath0 .",
    "finally , we ask the question of the impact of individual bank defaults on other banks .",
    "more specifically , if one particular bank becomes erased from the network , how many other banks become insolvent due to this event ?",
    "we call this conditional _ contagion impact _ on default of a specific bank .",
    "this is similar in spirit to looking at avalanche distributions triggered by controlled toggling of grains in a sandpile .",
    "we observe the portfolio positions @xmath28 of banks from our database . instead of simulating risk factor changes that are applied to this portfolio and",
    "are then cleared in a second step we artificially eliminate the funds of each bank one at a time , clear the system , and count the number of contagious ( induced ) defaults",
    ". this is repeated @xmath29 times so that each bank becomes removed , and all the others are present .",
    "we find that only 13 banks  when defaulting  drag more than one other bank into default .",
    "there are 16 banks which will cause one single default of one other bank .",
    "a natural guess would be to relate the contagion impact of a specific bank to its role in the network .",
    "amongst many possible measures , we find that the betweenness of the defaulting bank is directly related to the contagion impact .",
    "this is shown in fig .",
    "[ pajek ] c , where a linear relation between the betweenness @xmath30 and the contagion impact is suggested for @xmath31 .    in this work",
    "we combined the knowledge of the detailed structure of a real world banking network with an economic model , which allows to estimate the functional stability and robustness of the financial network .",
    "this model adds a dynamical component to the  static  liability matrix , which is nothing else but the promise for future financial flows between the banks . by",
    "stochastically varying external parameters of the system like interest rate shocks , we can follow the flow of financial transactions , and in particular can scan for defaults occurring in the system , due to insolvency .",
    "the results of this work is that the system seems to be relatively robust , and the probability for a contagious spread over the whole network is very small .",
    "however , there are several key banks ( not including the central bank ) , which upon their default , will lead to a considerable number of other banks defaulting as well . we showed that these key banks can be reliably identified by the vertex betweenness .",
    "we think that the existence of a threshold in the variable @xmath30 in a ",
    "scale - free network , combined with complex but realistic contagion dynamics is a remarkable finding which is worthwhile to examine further .",
    "elsinger , h. , lehar , a. , summer , m. : risk assessment of banking systems .",
    "austrian national bank working paper 79 ( 2002 ) .",
    "tadi , b. , thurner , s. : information super - diffusion on structured networks , physica a * 332 * ( 2004 ) 662"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> starting from an empirical analysis of the network structure of the austrian inter - bank market , we study the flow of funds through the banking network following exogenous shocks to the system . </S>",
    "<S> these shocks are implemented by stochastic changes in variables like interest rates , exchange rates , etc . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate that the system is relatively stable in the sence that defaults of individual banks are unlikely to spread over the entire network . </S>",
    "<S> we study the contagion impact of all individual banks , meaning the number of banks which are driven into insolvency as a result of a single bank s default . </S>",
    "<S> we show that the vertex betweenness of individual banks is linearly related to their contagion impact . </S>"
  ]
}