{
  "article_text": [
    "in the growth of thin films on a vicinal surface of high areal step density , there is a net current of deposit particles towards the ascending step edge due to the erlich schwoebel barrier at descending step edge .",
    "such transport of deosit atoms to the ascending step increases the possibility of step flow growth and makes the growth of thin films on a vicinal surface more stable than that on a sigular surface.@xcite moreover , such asymmetric flow of deposit atoms provides the possibility of forming a structure along the step edge and has been a subject of numerous studies for the growth of one - dimensional systems.@xcite even in the thin film growth on a vicinal surface , however , develops the meandering instability along step - edge.@xcite possible sources for this instability@xcite have been suggested as the asymmetric adatom diffusion due to the step erlich - schwoebel barrier @xcite and kinetically limited diffusion of the adatoms due to the kink ehrlich - schwoebel barrier.@xcite    in addition to the kinetic effects mentioned above , the deposition process , one of the ignored dynamic processes , has been recently found to affect the thin film growth@xcite .",
    "that is , the interaction between a deposit atom and the atomic structure on the surface modifies the trajectory of the deposit atom , called steering effect , and causes the inhomogeneous distribution of adatoms affecting the growth of thin films.@xcite adjacent to the edge of islands or steps , the steering effect is conspicuous due to rapid variation of the interaction potential , and thus is expected to be more influential in a deposition on a vicinal surface having high areal step density than in that on a singular surface .    the purpose of the present study is to explore the role of steered deposition on the thin film growth on a vicinal surface , which has been ignored in most of the previous simulation or theoretical studies ( see ref . 2 for a review ) .",
    "specifically , we calculate the deposition flux distribution on the vicinal surface , varying the deposition angle and direction .",
    "we also search for any possibility to overcome such kinetic growth instability by adjusting the dynamic variables involved in the deposition process .",
    "we have chosen to study the growth of cu on cu(1,1,17 ) , because cu(1,1,17 ) shows no surface reconstruction and has been a subject of many experimental and theoretical studies@xcite allowing us to compare our results with preexisting ones .",
    "present study utilizes a computer simulation combining a molecular dynamics ( md ) simulation for the dynamics of deposit atoms with a kinetic monte carlo ( kmc ) simulation for the growth of adatoms on the surface .",
    "we find that the steering - induced enhancement in the deposition flux near descending step edge is a critical factor affecting the growth instability on vicinal surface .",
    "the inhomogeneity of deposition flux depends on deposition angle , and a deposition angle which gives the minimum growth instability is found .",
    "nevertheless , the steering effect always increases the growth instabililty regardless of the deposition angle , with respect to the case where steering effect is neglected .",
    "kmc simulation is adopted to simulate the whole process of thin film growth .",
    "contrary to conventional kmc scheme , to simulate the trajectories of depositing atoms in detail , we incorporate md into kmc simulations , where md is employed whenever a deposition event occurs in the kmc@xcite .",
    ".[table1 ] diffusion barriers and parameters used in kmc .",
    "same notation is used for each diffusion process as in fig . 1 . [ cols=\"^,^,^ \" , ]     in the md simulation , a lennard - jones potential @xmath0 $ ] is used for the pair interaction between a deposit atom and an atom on surface , with @xmath1 ev and @xmath2 . these values of @xmath3 and @xmath4 are adopted from dijken @xmath5 @xcite .",
    "the initial kinetic energy of the deposit atom is set to 0.15 ev , corresponding to the melting temperature of cu .",
    "the newton s equation of motion is solved using verlet algorithm .",
    "atom is approached to the substrate by md , and then positioned to the nearest four - fold hollow site from the terminal position . the transient mobility is not included in the present study .",
    "that is , the deposit atoms are assumed to be in equilibrium with the substrate right after the deposition .    in the kmc simulation ,",
    "a lattice gas model is adopted which allows jump diffusion for adatom motion on fcc lattice .",
    "the possibility of each jump diffusion is calculated from the corresponding hopping rate , @xmath6 , with attempt frequency , @xmath7 .",
    "the definitions of the most relevant diffusion processes in the present simulation are illustrated in fig .",
    "1 . in table",
    "i , listed are the values of the diffusion barriers , @xmath8 , that are adopted from the values used by koponen@xcite in a growth simulation of cu on cu(1,1,17 ) and those obtained by furmann@xcite from a simulation study for thin film growth on cu(001 ) .",
    "cu(1,1,17 ) surface has a ( 001 ) terrace of 8.5-atomic width between two steps of an atomic height in [ -1,1,0 ] direction . in the following , x - axis is along the step edge as shown in fig . 1 ,",
    "and y - axis is along the step train direction .",
    "the simulation box has 12 terraces with step edge length of 800 @xmath9 , where @xmath9 is the surface lattice constant of cu(001 ) , 2.55 @xmath10 .",
    "periodic boundary conditions are adopted in both x and y directions .",
    "and ( b)@xmath11 . steered deposition fluxes at deposition angles of ( c ) @xmath12 , ( d)@xmath11 , ( e ) @xmath13 , ( f)@xmath14 , ( g ) @xmath15 , and ( h ) deposition without steering effect",
    "normalization is made with respect to homogeneous flux .",
    "solid circle : deposition flux .",
    "open circle : deposition flux after subtracting the enhancement due to the purely geometrical contribution ( see the main text for details).,scaledwidth=45.0% ]    as a preliminary investigation of the steering effect on thin film growth , the deposition flux distributions or deposition probabilities are examined for various deposition angles by md . deposition angle is measured from the normal to the ( 0,0,1 ) terrace to [ -110 ] direction ( y - axis ) .",
    "the positive deposition angle is for the deposition direction from the upper terrace to the lower one along y - axis as shown in fig .",
    "2(b ) , and the negative angle is for the opposite direction as shown in fig .",
    "the trajectories of the deposit atoms in figs .",
    "2(a ) and ( b ) show the steering effect , where bending of trajectories of the incident atoms , most notably near steps , occurs due to the interaction between the deposit atom and substrate atoms .",
    "2(c ) to ( g ) show the deposition flux distributions normalized to homogeneous flux for various deposition angles .",
    "depositon flux , shown with solid circles in figs .",
    "2(c ) to ( g ) , increases near step , while that on terrace decreases compared with homogeneous flux.@xcite it is important , however , to note that this enhanced flux near step is not soley due to the steering effect . the deposition flux distribution in fig .",
    "2(h ) is for deposition with no steering effect considered , and still shows relatively high flux near steps .",
    "this is because there are only two adsorption sites available in 2.5 @xmath9 distance from each step edge along y - axis , while one adsorption site is available in each 1.0 @xmath9 distance on terrace .",
    "the deposition flux after subtracting this purely geometrical contribution is shown with open circles in figs .",
    "2(c ) to ( g ) and shows the enhanced deposition flux near steps purely due to the steering effect .    for deposition angles closer to the grazing angle ( that is , anlges of larger magnitude ) ,",
    "the deposition flux becomes more inhomogeneous or more enhanced near steps , as can be seen by comparing figs .",
    "2(c ) and ( d ) with figs .",
    "2(e ) and ( f ) , respectively .",
    "as deposition angle becomes larger , so does the flight time of depositing atoms , during which their trajectories and in turn , the deposition fluxes are apt to be more disturbed by the inhomogeneous substrate potential .",
    "it is also interesting to note the difference between the flux profiles at positive deposition angles ( figs .",
    "2(d ) and ( f ) ) and those at negative deposition angles ( figs .",
    "2(c ) and ( e ) ) . in the negative angles ,",
    "the deposition flux at the ascending step edge is larger than that at the descending step edge , and _",
    "vice versa_. this may be explained from the fact that at positive deposition angles , the shadowing effect@xcite diminishes the probability for deposit atoms to sit on the sites next to the ascending step edge , while no such shadowing is expected for negative deposition angles .    .",
    "the size of the figures , ( a ) and ( b ) , is 800@xmath16150 @xmath17 .",
    "( c ) evolution of a step edge with increasing coverage .",
    "successive curves show the development of step edges at cu coverages below 5 ml with the increment of 1/3 ml .",
    "the size of the figure ( c ) is 800@xmath1654 @xmath17 .",
    "@xmath9 is the surface lattice constant of cu(001 ) , 2.55 @xmath10.,scaledwidth=45.0% ]    the effect of the steering - induced inhomogeneous deposition flux on thin film growth on a vicinal surface is studied by kmc utilizing md for each deposition event . during the growth , the substrate temperature is set to 240 k. snapshots of a simulated system are shown in figs .",
    "3(a ) and ( b ) .",
    "3(c ) shows the evolution of a step as the coverage increases .",
    "we observe that the average position of step edge proceeds 8.5 @xmath9 for each monolayer ( ml ) deposition , indicating step flow growth .",
    "however , the lateral roughness increases , and the coherence between adjacent step edges develops to form finger-like structures ( fig .",
    "3(c ) ) as the coverage increases .",
    "each finger shows ledge envelope along [ 100 ] and [ 0,-1,0 ] directions , as observed for both experimental studies@xcite and the simulation results by koponen _",
    "et al._.@xcite    for a quantitative understanding of the growth instability on a vicinal surface , the lateral roughness and the finger width taken as a measure of lateral coarseness are calculated .",
    "we define the lateral height , @xmath18 , as the distance from a position x at a pristine step edge to the growth front in the direction normal to the step edge ( that is , in y - direction ) , and the lateral roughness as @xmath19 .",
    "the lateral coarseness is calculated from the average separation between fingers within heights @xmath20 , where @xmath21 is the average lateral height of each step . as a measure for the growth instability",
    ", we take the aspect ratio , lateral roughness to finger width ( lateral coarseness ) . for an ideal step - flow growth or a stable growth",
    ", the aspect ratio should be very small .         in fig .",
    "4(a ) , the lateral roughness increases monotonically as coverage increases . at the maximum coverage of the present simualtion , 5 ml , the roughness is about 7@xmath9 indicating a very rough step edge .",
    "the roughness shows distinct dependence on the deposition angle . in the inset of fig .",
    "4(a ) , shown is the lateral roughness as a function of deposition angle after depositing 5 ml .",
    "the roughness is minimum at deposition angles at @xmath22 . as the deposition angle becomes larger ,",
    "so does the roughness .",
    "in addition to the deposition angle , the roughness depends also on the direction of deposition .",
    "when deposition is made facing ascending step edge or at negative angle , the roughness of the film is small compared with that grown at the same magnitude of depostion angle , but in the opposite direction facing descending step edge .",
    "the development of lateral coarseness with increasing coverage was estimated by that of finger width . in fig .",
    "4(b ) and its inset , the finger width monotonically dereases as coverage increases , and also shows a definite dependence on both deposition angle and direction .",
    "the finger width shows maximum at @xmath23 and decreases to minimum at @xmath24 .",
    "the most notable thing is that the lateral roughness and coarseness have close correlation in their dependence on the deposition angle ; deposition at angles between @xmath25 and @xmath22 shows most stable step - flow growth with the minimum roughness and maximum finger width or the minimum aspect ratio , while deposition at @xmath26 shows the opposite behavior , the most unstable growth with the maximum roughness and the minimum finger width , or the maximum aspect ratio .",
    "the aforementioned angular dependence of the growth instability should have originated from the dynamic effect of deposition process , the steering effect , since all the kinetic variables are identical for each deposition at various angles .",
    "a direct result of steering effect is the inhomogeneous deposition flux .",
    "hence , we investigate the correlation between depsoition flux distribution and growth stability : the atoms deposited near ascending step edge is expected to reproduce the step edge by directly adhering to the sites near step edge , and should not be the main source of steering - induced growth instability .",
    "however , the atoms near the descending step edge would diffuse across terrace before reaching ascending step edge due to step erlich schwoebel barrier . during such terrace diffusion , the atoms redistribute themselves to feed and newly form laterally inhomogeneous structures , being a source of meandering instability.@xcite indeed , we find the predicted correlation between the growth instability and the enhanced deposition flux near descending step edge ; in fig.5 , the deposition flux averaged over the three sites adjacent to the descenting step edge is well matched with the aspect ratio for varying deposition angles . as the avearge deposition flux near the descending step edge is more enhanced , the mean travel length of deposit atoms to ascending step edge should become longer , and the growth becomes more unstable giving the larger aspect ratio .    for possible origin of growth instability on a vicinal surface , two pictures have been proposed based on kinetics of adatoms ; one attributes the instability to the step erlich schwoebel barrier effect ( sese ) @xcite and the other to the kink erlich schwoebel barrier effect ( kese).@xcite sese affects the motion and redistribution of deposited atoms on terrace , which should be directly dependent on the deposition flux destribution .",
    "kese , however , governs the motion of atoms along step edges , and is not directly affected by the initial deposition flux . the intimate correlation between deposition flux near descending step edge and growth instability shown in fig.5 , indicates that the steering - induced deposition flux enhancement near descending step edge strengthens the role of sese on growth instability .",
    "in the figs .",
    "4(a ) and ( b ) , the steered growth always show larger roughness and smaller coarseness regardless of the deposition angle than the growth neglecting the steering effect ( dotted curves ) .",
    "that is , the steering effect always increases the growth instability .",
    "such behavior is expected from the relatively small flux enhancement near descending step edge for steering - free depsoition as shown in fig.2 , consistent with the aforementioned explanation .",
    "although the steering effect is inevitable for vapor deposition for thin film growth , the existence of a deposition angle producing the minimum growth instability ( fig .",
    "5 ) suggests that the optimizaton of deposition angle should be a prerequisite for the most stable growth of thin films on a vicinal surface .",
    "kmc simulation in conjunction with md simulation is performed to study the steering effect , in which the trajectory of each deposit atom is affected by interactions with substrate , on the growth of cu on cu(1,1,17 ) .",
    "it is found that the steered deposition flux becomes inhomogeneous and the inhomogeneity depends on the deposition angle and direction .",
    "the deposition flux enhancement near descending step edges is found to be the most critical factor for the increase of growth instability due to the steering effect .",
    "the mechanism of such steering - induced increase of growth instability is discussed in details . in the present simulation",
    ", we also find a deposition angle producing minimum growth instability and show that the optimization of deposition angle should be a desirable for the most stable thin film growth on a vicinal surface .",
    "p. gambardella , a. dallmeyer , k. maiti , c. malagoli , w. eberhardt , k. kern , and c. carbone , nature .",
    "* 416 * , 301 ( 2002 ) ; p. gambardella , m. blanc , k. kuhnke , k. kern , f. picaud , c. ramseyer , c. giradet , c. barreteau , d. spanjaard , m. c. desjonqueres , phys .",
    "rev . b*64 * , 045404 ( 2001 ) .",
    "o. pierre - louis and c. misbah , y. saito , j. krug , and p. politi , phys .",
    "lett . * 80 * , 4221(1998 ) ; o. pierre - louis , m. r. dorsogna , and t. l. einstein , phys . rev . lett . * 82 * , 3661 ( 1999 ) ; m. v. ramana murty and b. h. cooper , phys .",
    "lett . * 83 * , 352(1999 ) .",
    "m. rusanen , i. t. koponen , j. heinonen , and t. ala - nissila , phys .",
    "lett . * 86 * , 5317 ( 2001 ) .",
    "s. v. dijken , l. c. jorritsma , and b. poelsema , phys .",
    "lett . * 82*,4038 ( 1999 ) ; s.v .",
    "dijken , l.c .",
    "jorritsma , and b. poelsema , phys.rev .",
    "b * 61 * , 14047 ( 2000 ) .",
    "the flux distribution is determined by the shape of potential formed by substrate atoms near surface , and strongly dependent on the terrace width , especially for vicinal surfaces with narrow terrace like the present one ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> kinetic monte carlo simulation in conjunction with molecular dynamics simulation is utilized to study the effect of the steered deposition on the growth of cu on cu(1,1,17 ) . </S>",
    "<S> it is found that the deposition flux becomes inhomogeneous in step train direction and the inhomogeneity depends on the deposition angle , when the deposition is made along that direction . </S>",
    "<S> steering effect is found to always increase the growth instability , with respect to the case of homogeneous deposition . </S>",
    "<S> further , the growth instability depends on the deposition angle and direction , showing minimum at a certain deposition angle off - normal to ( 001 ) terrace , and shows a strong correlation with the inhomogeneous deposition flux . </S>",
    "<S> the increase of the growth instability is ascribed to the strengthened step erlich schwoebel barrier effects that is caused by the enhanced deposition flux near descending step edge due to the steering effect . </S>"
  ]
}