{
  "article_text": [
    "the classification of sandpile models in their different universality class has been a topic of intensive research in the last decade @xcite .",
    "however , most of the work has been devoted to models with undirected toppling while their corresponding directed variants has been less studied . from the theoretical side we count with the exact solution for the directed btw model @xcite obtained by dhar and ramaswamy @xcite , which can be taken as a reference for numerical simulations . on the other hand , pastor - satorras and vespignani @xcite",
    "has recently reported numerical simulations for the manna model @xcite , which puts clear evidence about the classification of the btw and manna directed models in different universality classes .",
    "other studies include a directed model with a probabilistic toppling @xcite and a recent report concerning the effect of local dissipation on the soc state @xcite .",
    "the analysis of other directed models , the non abelian zhang model for instance , is of great interested and may give light to the study of their corresponding undirected variants . with this scope",
    "three different directed models are investigated by means of numerical simulations .",
    "this includes the well known zhang model @xcite , the random threshold model ( rt ) @xcite , and the btw model under an uniform driving .",
    "the influence of a uniform driving in the zhang model has been already discussed in the literature @xcite although some aspects are still not clear .",
    "however , the same analysis has not been made for models with a discrete toppling rule , like the btw model , where the energy transfer always takes place in discrete units . in this direction narayan and",
    "middleton @xcite suggested that the btw model under noisy and uniform driving has the same critical behavior .    from the numerical data it is concluded that the manna and rt directed models belong to the same universality class , in agreement with",
    "the general believe for the corresponding undirected variants @xcite .",
    "moreover , the data obtained for the zhang model does not satisfy finite - size scaling which suggest that this model is in different universality class from that of the models mentioned above .    in the case of the btw model under uniform driving it is shown , after some algebra with the toppling operators @xcite , that its evolution is periodic in time with a period scaling linearly with system size . in spite of this periodicity , which is not present in the original model with noisy driving @xcite , the statistics of the avalanches is found to be practically identical to its noisy driving counterpart .",
    "consider a square lattice of @xmath0 sites labeled by index @xmath1 ( @xmath2 ) and assign a variable @xmath3 to each of them .",
    "@xmath3 can be continuous or discrete and may have different interpretations depending on the system one is modeling .",
    "it will be referred here as the energy storage at the corresponding site .",
    "the geometry used is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig:1 ] , in which a site can transfer energy only to its three downward nearest neighbors ( nn ) . in the horizontal direction",
    "periodic boundary conditions are considered while the downward boundary is taken open .",
    "this geometry allows a natural implementation of the manna toppling rule @xcite .",
    "one motivation for the use of this geometry was given in @xcite , it is just introduced to allow the implementation of the manna toppling rule .    to completely define a model one should specify the initial condition and the evolution rules ( addition of energy and toppling ) of the sandpile cellular automaton model .",
    "a threshold @xmath4 is considered in such a way that sites with @xmath5 are say to be stable and their energy remains constant , while those with @xmath6 are say to be active and topple transferring energy to their downward nn .",
    "first the usual noisy addition of energy is considered . in this case , if all sites are stable a unit of energy is added to a site selected at random .",
    "then the system is updated in parallel using the toppling rule until all sites are stable .",
    "the number of toppling events required to drive the system to an stable configuration is the size of the avalanche and is denoted by @xmath7 . on the other hand ,",
    "the number of steps ( parallel updates ) required is its duration and is denoted by @xmath8 . since the driving acts at random after some avalanches",
    "the system `` forget '' its initial condition and reaches a stationary state .",
    "in other words the initial condition is irrelevant .",
    "models will differ from each other depending on the specific toppling rule one implements . here",
    "the following toppling rules are considered ,    * btw : @xmath9 , @xmath10 and @xmath11 ( @xmath12 ) ; * manna : @xmath13 , @xmath14 and @xmath15 ( @xmath12 ) , where @xmath16 can take the values @xmath17 at random but with the constraint of conservation @xmath18 ; * zhang : @xmath19 , @xmath20 and @xmath21 ( @xmath12 ) ; * rt : @xmath4 takes the values 3 and 4 at random after each toppling , @xmath10 and @xmath22 ( @xmath23 ) .      in the noisy driving described above",
    "the addition of energy takes place at one site selected at random .",
    "however , there are many situations where a uniform driving in which the energy at all sites increases in the same amount becomes more realistic .",
    "examples can be found in earthquake dynamics @xcite , interface depinning @xcite and also in some experimental setups to for granular materials @xcite .",
    "this type of driving has been investigated in models with a toppling rule similar to that of the zhang models but with local dissipation @xcite .    in the case of the btw model",
    "we should be careful when introducing a global driving . if as usual @xmath3 is an integer variable and the energy at all sites",
    "is increased at a constant rate @xmath24 then many sizes will reach the threshold energy at the same time and , therefore , many avalanches will start at different points of the lattice leading to the superposition of avalanches .",
    "this problem can be solved considering a continuum energy profile .",
    "this is still not enough because if all sites start with a discrete energy it will remain discrete forever .",
    "we are thus forced to consider a continuum initial profile @xmath25 .",
    "then as it was already shown by narayan and middleton @xcite the continuum addition of energy can be replaced by a sequential addition of energy . for simplicity",
    "consider the low disorder regime where @xmath26 for all sites .",
    "for the analysis below is irrelevant if the initial energy profile is displaced uniformly at all sites .    now , suppose that the energy increases at rate @xmath24 at all sites .",
    "an example is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig:2 ] for a lattice made of a horizontal line of three sites .",
    "notice that in this case one has only input of energy coming form the driving field and output dissipation under toppling , a simplification considered for illustrative purposes .",
    "in the continuum time scale the energy increases linearly until it reaches the threshold where the site topples and its energy decreases by 3 ( btw toppling rule ) .",
    "but the system can be also monitored in a discrete time and energy scales . in these scales , at step @xmath27 all sites have energy 0 . in step 1 , 2 and 3 sites",
    "1 , 2 and 3 receives one unit of energy .",
    "then in subsequent steps the same sequence of addition is repeated .",
    "the order in the sequence of addition is clearly determined by the initial condition and all sites should receive a unit of energy before the first site of the second receives the second grain .",
    "now consider an square lattice , where sites can also receive energy from nearest neighbors in the layer above .",
    "the picture will not change in relation to the addition of energy from the external field . in the btw model",
    "the energy is transferred in discrete units and , therefore , the toppling only modifies the integer part of @xmath28 with no modification of the sequence of addition .",
    "this is a fundamental difference with the zhang toppling rule which not only involve the integer par of the energy but on toppling all the energy at the active site is transferred .",
    "the consequences derived from this periodic sequential driving is investigated below , using the formalism introduced by dhar _",
    "et al _ @xcite .",
    "let be @xmath29 the operator which add a particle at site @xmath1 and lead the system relax to an equilibrium position @xcite .",
    "after @xmath30 steps all sites receives one , and only one , unit of energy in certain order determined at @xmath27 .",
    "thus , if at time @xmath31 we have a configuration @xmath32 then at time @xmath33 we will obtain the configuration @xmath34 the order in which the string of operators appears in this equation is irrelevant because the operators @xmath29 commute among them self .",
    "applying these string three times it results that @xmath35 this expression can be simplified using the following property of the toppling operators @xcite @xmath36 the first equality express the fact that the addition of three grains at a site @xmath1 , with @xmath37 , makes this site active transferring one grain to each of its downward nn .",
    "the second one applies for the boundary sites which after receiving three grains become active dissipating these three grains through the boundary and , therefore , leaving the energy configuration invariant .",
    "starting at layer @xmath38 all the operators @xmath39 are eliminated using eq .",
    "( [ eq : b4 ] ) .",
    "this will increase the power of operators @xmath40 in eq .",
    "( [ eq : b3 ] ) by 3 .",
    "the same procedure is applied to the second , third ...",
    "@xmath41 layer finally resulting @xmath42 the application of the operator @xmath43 three consecutive times lead its energy invariant and , therefore , eq . ( [ eq : b5 ] )",
    "is reduced to @xmath44 hence the evolution of the energy profile is periodic with period 3n .    this property is not observed in the noisy driving case where the randomness introduced by the driving field makes the dynamics markovian @xcite .",
    "nevertheless , as it is shown in the next section , the statistical properties of the avalanches in the btw directed model are independent of the driving mechanism .",
    "numerical simulations of the btw , manna , zhang and rt models with directed toppling were performed . in all cases lattice sizes ranging from @xmath45 to @xmath46 where used .",
    "the numerical results obtained for the btw and manna models are taken only as a reference because we count with the largest scale simulations reported in @xcite ( up to @xmath47 ) .",
    "_ noisy driving _ : starting from an initial flat profile all systems were updated until they reach the stationary state . after that statistics over @xmath48 avalanches was taken , recording the avalanche sizes and durations .    _",
    "uniform driving _ :",
    "the evolution in time of the energy profile is periodic and , therefore , average was taken over the period @xmath49 .",
    "different initial conditions where simulated using different permutations of the sequence of addition of energy .    to extract the scaling exponents we use the moment analysis technique @xcite .",
    "the @xmath50 moment of the probability density @xmath51 of a magnitude @xmath52 is defined by @xmath53 where @xmath54 . as defined above @xmath7 and @xmath8",
    "are the avalanche size and duration , i.e. the number of toppling events and parallel updates , respectively , required to drive the system to an stable configuration .",
    "if the hypothesis of finite - size scaling is satisfied , that is the distribution of avalanche size and duration can be written in the form @xmath55 , then the @xmath50 moment scales with system size according to the power law @xmath56 with @xmath57 where @xmath58 and @xmath59 are effective dimensions which characterize how the cutoffs of the distribution of avalanche sizes and durations , respectively , scales with system size .",
    "on the other hand @xmath60 is the power low exponent which can be measured in the scaling region before the finite - size cutoffs .",
    "the plot of @xmath61 and @xmath62 vs. @xmath50 is shown in figs .",
    "[ fig:3 ] for different directed models . and",
    "[ fig:4 ] , respectively .",
    "if two models belong to the same universality class then the linear part of the plot should overlap .",
    "based on this argument it is then concluded that the rt model belong to the same universality class of the manna model . a more quantitative comparison can be seen in table [ tab:1 ] where the exponents computed here for the rt model are compared with those reported in @xcite for the manna model .",
    "the scaling exponents are found in very good agreement within the numerical error .",
    "if the hypothesis of finite size scaling is valid then one can take the scaling exponents obtained from the moment analysis and plot the different distributions on rescaled variables in such a way that curve for different system sizes overlap .",
    "this is done in figs .",
    "[ fig:5 ] and [ fig:6 ] for the rt model resulting in a very good data collapse , as it has been also observed for the directed manna model @xcite .    on the other hand",
    ", one can not distinguish between the curve for the btw model with noisy or uniform driving , leading to the same scaling exponents .",
    "thus , the periodicity introduced by the uniform driving carry no consequence for the critical behavior of the btw model . hence , the noisy driving can be substituted by a uniform driving together with an initial random energy profile .",
    "this will correspond in an interface depinning description , the number of toppling events playing the role of the interface height , to a columnar disorder .",
    "a similar conclusion was obtained by lauritsen and alava using a different argument @xcite .",
    "the things becomes less clear when analyzing the zhang model . in this case from the moment technique it results that @xmath63 , @xmath64 , @xmath65 and @xmath66 .",
    "these exponents define by them self a new universality class .",
    "however , the moment analysis technique is based on the hypothesis of finite size scaling which in this case is not satisfied .",
    "this fact becomes clear in figs .",
    "[ fig:7 ] and [ fig:8 ] , where the data collapse is shown , revealing that in this case the finite - size scaling is not satisfied .",
    "deviations are observed not only for the smallest avalanches but also for the largest avalanches where the finite size scaling is expected to be better .",
    "the anomalies observed for the zhang model are associated with the existence of huge avalanches which practically empties the system .",
    "after one of these huge avalanches the system needs some time to reach again the critical state .",
    "this means that the mean energy of the system displays strong fluctuations and , therefore , the overall avalanche statistics is given by the small avalanches taking place during the accumulation of new grains and these huge avalanches .",
    "this picture is illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig:9 ] where the fraction of avalanches of size @xmath7 is plotted .",
    "it is characterized by a rounded peak at the largest avalanche sizes which shifts with lattice size . on the other hand ,",
    "the other part of the distribution can not be fitted by a single power law .",
    "the classification of the manna and rt directed models in the same universality class is in agreement with a similar report for the corresponding undirected variants @xcite .",
    "thus , there should be some common element in these models , which is off course not present in the btw model .",
    "a clue was given in @xcite related with the possibility of multiple toppling events .",
    "in this final part of this section we discuss this statement in more detail .    in the directed btw model the cluster of sites which topples within an avalanche is compact and",
    "these sites topple only once . on the contrary ,",
    "pastor - satorras and vespignani @xcite observed that in the directed manna model the cluster of sites touched by the avalanche is still compact but each site participating in the avalanche can topple more than once . if the existence of multiple toppling events is the property that puts the manna model in a different universality class then a similar behavior should be observed in the present simulations of the directed rt model .    a decomposition of the sites participating in an avalanche based on the number of toppling events performed at these sites is shown in fig .",
    "9 , for the case of the directed random - threshold model . in this particular realization",
    "the cluster of sites touched by the avalanche is decomposed in three sub clusters where sites have toppled one , two and three times .",
    "the fraction of sites toppling three times is small but the one with two toppling is comparable with that of one . in general",
    "it was observed that in large avalanches the fraction of sites which topple one and two times are of the same order and , therefore , multiple toppling events are relevant .    in the case of undirected models",
    "it is known that multiple toppling events are present even in the btw model , which leads to the decomposition of the avalanches in waves @xcite . however , their origin is different than in directed models . in the undirected btw model",
    "a site may topple more than once because after a first toppling ( let say at step @xmath31 ) it is possible that all its neighbors become active and topple ( at step @xmath67 ) and , therefore , the site will again be active and topple ( at step @xmath68 ) . in the decomposition of waves one",
    "apply the toppling rule to all sites until they are stable before toppling the initial active site a second , third , ... time , generating in this way the first , second , ... wave .",
    "one may think in applying a similar approach for the avalanches in the manna and rt directed models , decomposing the avalanche as a superposition of waves .",
    "a fundamental property of the waves is that within it sites can toppling only once , otherwise the concept is useless .",
    "below its is shown that such a decomposition is not possible in the manna and rt directed models , a least not in such a simple way .",
    "let us analyze in detail how a multiple toppling event can be generated in the rt directed model .",
    "suppose the lattice has a configuration where a site has height @xmath69 and threshold @xmath70 and its three upward nearest neighbors are active .",
    "then in the next step the site will receive three grains , one per active neighbor , taking an energy @xmath71 , becoming active . after toppling",
    "the energy will decrease to @xmath72 and a new threshold is assigned .",
    "but the new threshold can be either 3 or 4 .",
    "if it is 4 the site will be stable but if it is 3 it will be still active and topple in the next step . since in the particular model considered here the two threshold",
    "are selected with equal probability then the multiple toppling can take place with the same probability than the single one , which explains the previous observation that in large avalanche the fraction of two - toppling events at the same site are of the order of the one - toppling one .    during the evolution of an avalanche which started at layer @xmath73",
    "is possible that a site at a layer below @xmath74 needs two consecutive toppling to be stable .",
    "thinking in a decomposition in waves one can delay the second toppling until all the sites below are stable ( first wave ) and then topple the site the second time generating the second wave .",
    "however , during the first wave is possible that a site at a deeper layer @xmath75 also needs two toppling to become stable and , therefore , the first wave has to be decomposed in sub - waves where sites topple only once .",
    "the same process may occur even at deeper layer thus generating a hierarchical structure of sub - waves .",
    "hence , the decomposition of avalanche in waves in these models lead to a more complex structure which nevertheless may be exploited to obtain some estimate of the scaling exponents .",
    "this is nevertheless out of the scope of this work .",
    "directed sandpile models with different toppling rule has been studied by means of numerical simulations , with the purpose of determining the different universality classes . to extract the scaling exponents the moment analysis technique was used and the resulted exponents were latter corroborated by finite size scaling of the distribution of avalanche size and duration .",
    "the numerical analysis reveals that the introduction of a uniform driving in the btw directed model does not change the critical properties .",
    "the evolution in time of the energy profile is in this case periodic with a period which scales linearly with the system size . in spite of this periodicity the avalanche distributions are practically identical to that obtained for the same model but with the usual noisy driving .",
    "it is concluded that the manna and rt models are in the same universality , where multiple toppling events appear to be a fundamental property .",
    "the existence of multiple toppling events leads to a decomposition of the avalanche in a hierarchical structure of waves which my be a starting point for future research .",
    "finally , it is observed that the avalanches in the directed zhang model displays a complex structure which does not satisfy the finite - size scaling hypothesis .",
    "it is given by the superposition of huge avalanches involving a large dissipation of energy through the boundary a small avalanches taking place during the accumulation of energy .",
    "i thanks r. pastor satorras and a. vespignani for useful comments and discussion during the elaboration of this manuscript .",
    "the numerical simulations where performed using the computing facilities at the ictp .",
    "a. ben - hur and o. biham , phys .",
    "e * 53 * , r1317 ( 1996 ) ; s. lbeck and k. d. usadel , phys .",
    "e * 55 * , 4095 ( 1997 ) ; ibid . *",
    "56 * , 5138 ( 1997 ) ; a. chessa , h. e. stanley , a. vespignani and s. zapperi , phys .",
    "e * 59 * , r12 ( 1999 ) ; c. tebaldi , m. de menech , and a. l. stella , phys .",
    "lett . * 83 * , 3952 ( 1999 ) ; s. lbeck , phys . rev .",
    "e * 61 * , 204 ( 2000 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> directed sandpile models with different toppling rules are studied by means of numerical simulations in two dimensions , with the purpose of determining the different universality classes . </S>",
    "<S> it is concluded that the random - threshold directed model is in the same universality of the manna directed model where multiple toppling events plays a determinant role . the btw model with uniform and noisy driving </S>",
    "<S> are found to display the same critical behavior . </S>",
    "<S> moreover it is observed that the zhang model does not satisfy simple finite size scaling .    2 </S>"
  ]
}