{
  "article_text": [
    "since their discovery nearly fifteen years ago , single wall carbon nanotubes ( swnt ) have received considerable interest from scientists : they are quite simple nanoscopic objects , with fascinating physical properties ; moreover , their potential applications , in the field of nanosciences and nanotechnology , are very promising .",
    "but one major challenge is to control the growth of swnts , in particular concerning their diameter and helicity .",
    "this is the reason why a lot of literature was recently devoted to the understanding of the catalytic nucleation and growth of these tubes .",
    "a typical situation is the high - temperature catalytic growth of swnts : small metallic particles of ni or co are heated in the presence of carbon , by arc discharge , laser heating or cvd , which causes growth of bundles of swnts perpendicular to the surface of the particles .",
    "maiti et al .",
    "@xcite suggest a general model which seems to get a broad agreement : the metallic particles are oversaturated in carbon , and a graphene layer wraps their surface .",
    "embryos of swnts , looking like half - fullerenes , can form on this layer , and subsequently grow from their foot .",
    "these authors present molecular - dynamics computations , using a tersoff - brener potential , on ( 11,3 ) tubes taken as examples .",
    "more recently , other reports on the same subject were published .",
    "gavillet et al .",
    "@xcite presented a high - resolution transmission electron microscopy study of such a root - growth mechanism , completed by a computer - simulation work using quantum molecular dynamics .",
    "the paper by kanzow et al .",
    "@xcite is another example of a growth model `` in which precipitated graphene sheets detach from the surface of a liquid catalyst particle , forming fullerenelike caps '' .",
    "gavillet et al .",
    "@xcite gave an interesting review of experimental and theoretical results on swnt nucleation and growth ; in particular , they stated that `` a natural process is to imagine that carbon atoms are incorporated at the root or at the tip where ` defects ' necessarily occur : heptagons at the root and pentagons at the tip and/or metal  carbon bonds '' ; these authors also addressed the role of the catalyst . recently , ding et al .",
    "@xcite presented molecular dynamics calculations on very small iron particles oversaturated with carbon , giving rise to very irregular swnts .",
    "the purpose of the present paper is to propose qualitative ideas towards a better understanding of the nucleation and growth of swnts .",
    "we show that a very small number of elementary defect types are required to build swnts from a graphene surface .",
    "we also address the case where tubes grow inside a bundle .",
    "our starting point consists in a graphene plane , on which an embryo of swnt will grow . in order to check the stability and energy of the proposed defect geometries , we performed energy minimizations by using the tersoff model @xcite .",
    "we worked mainly with a nearly square portion of the graphene plane of 240 carbon atoms , with periodic boundary conditions in both directions of the plane .",
    "we also considered the case of a network of embryos , using for that purpose a diamond - shaped unit cell with suitable periodic boundary conditions .",
    "our energy computations do not pretend to be very precise ; they intend to give some indications for comparing different possible configurations .",
    "we consider three elementary defects in the graphene plane :    \\a ) the stone - wales defect @xcite is the simplest possible point defect , which consists in a @xmath0 rotation of a pair of c atoms , with some rearrangement of the c - c bounds : the net result is the transformation of four hexagons into two heptagons and two pentagons . in our configuration , it corresponds to an extra energy of 9.1 ev .",
    "this estimate is quite large compared to more precise calculations from _ ab initio _",
    "approaches @xcite which give energy values for the stone - wales ( sw ) defect in the 5 to 6 ev range .",
    "we use however the tersoff potential , due to its high simplicity ; in spite of its lack of accuracy , we believe that it can be useful for comparing different growth scenarii .",
    "\\b ) the bi - interstitial enables to add extra c atoms to the graphene without generating dangling bonds ( which would be the case with single interstitials ) .",
    "our model for the bi - interstitial consists in adding atoms onto two opposite sides of an hexagon .",
    "the net result is again two heptagons and two pentagons , with a different topology compared to the sw defect .",
    "it corresponds to an extra energy of 11.9 ev ( this energy is taken as the difference with that of the same number of atoms if they were in a perfect graphene sheet ) .",
    "\\c ) the last defect is the dislocation .",
    "it is composed of a pentagon - heptagon pair @xcite , the burgers vector ( bv ) being perpendicular to the pentagon - heptagon axis .",
    "it is quite amusing to note that , in the very different framework of grain growth , cahn and padawer pointed out the existence of this defect in a honeycomb network many years ago @xcite . like any dislocation , it is topologically impossible to create ex nihilo such a defect .",
    "it can only be created as a pair of dislocations of opposite bv , or ( we shall give examples in the following ) as a side effect of the evolution of other defects . the energy of an isolated dislocation is known to diverge logarithmically with distance in an infinite crystal ; however , in practice , such a divergence being slow , and for a finite size of samples or a finite distance between dislocations , an energy value estimate can often be given .",
    "building two dislocations from such a dislocation pair in our finite graphene sample , we estimate the individual dislocation energy to be about 11 ev .    elementary dislocation theory teaches that dislocations can glide , along a line in the present 2d configuration : this line is parallel to the burgers vector , i.e. perpendicular to the pentagon - heptagon axis .",
    "it is interesting to note that fig .",
    "2(a ) and ( b ) of ref .",
    "@xcite is an example of the creation and glide of two such dislocations , evidenced in a numerical simulation .",
    "in fact , it is quite straightforward that a dislocation can glide by one polygon with a single sw made on one edge of the heptagon .",
    "it is worth mentioning that like classical 3d dislocations , two dislocations with opposite bv must attract themselves .",
    "the other defects mentioned before , the sw and the bi - interstials , can also glide : both these defects can be seen as made from two dislocations with opposite bv , which can glide individually .",
    "our model lies on the fact that an embryo is nucleated in the graphene plane , so that it can grow from the foot , perpendicularly to the plane .",
    "the cap of the embryo looks like a half - sphere , which means , as many authors remarked , that  from euler s theorem  it contains exactly 6 pentagons ( in reality , topology only dictates that , when the polygons are forced to be heptagons , hexagons or pentagons , the difference between the number of heptagons and pentagons must be 6 ) . as a consequence , there must be exactly 6 heptagons around the foot of the embryo .",
    "embryo of a ( 12,0 ) zig - zag swnt .",
    "the heptagons in the foot of the embryo are hatched .",
    "we get an extra energy of 28.1 ev . ]",
    "we have constructed some embryos by adding bi - interstitials in the graphene plane .",
    "for instance , a ( 12,0 ) zig - zag embryo could be built by adding 24 interstitials ( 12 bi - interstitials ) , which generated 12 new polygons .",
    "such an embryo is shown in fig .  [",
    "fig : embryo ] .",
    "the tersoff energy minimization gives an energy of 28.1 ev for this embryo .",
    "in order to make the ( 12,0 ) embryo grow one row , it is necessary to add 12 hexagons , that is 24 interstitials .",
    "there are several possibilities for adding these interstitials .    if the 12 bi - interstitials are added in the 12 polygons ( 6 hexagons and 6 heptagons ) which form the first ring of the embryo , the net result is the growth of the tube without creating any supplementary defect .",
    "the final energy of the tube is about 30 ev , which is only slightly more than that of the embryo . adding the bi - interstitials not at once , but one after the other , the energy increases much more , passing through a maximum of 9 ev above .",
    "it is clear that this growing process can be repeated _ ad libitum _ , making the tube grow indefinitely .",
    "the fact that , in this process , interstitials are not added in the basal graphene plane , but on the side of the embryo , can be questionable if the c atoms come from the inside of the supersaturated metallic particle .",
    "we wish thus to suggest here a second possible process .",
    "24 carbon interstitials are added on the foot of the embryo of a ( 12,0 ) swnt .",
    "the heptagons in the foot of the embryo are hatched .",
    "the pentagons and octagons are grayed .",
    "we get an extra energy of 72.0 ev . ]    adding the 12 bi - interstitials in the closest ring of hexagons next to the foot of the embryo gives the arrangement shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : embryo24int ] , with an energy of 72.0 ev , which is a much higher value ; we discuss this value below .",
    "now , near the foot of the tube , a lot of defects are present : 6 octagons and 12 pentagons ( they are grayed in fig .",
    "[ fig : embryo24int ] ) .",
    "these defects have to be eliminated by some kind of glide movement in order to get a realistic defect - free growing process .",
    "this can be done quite easily , in two steps :     6 stone - wales transforms are made on the pattern shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : embryo24int ] . the heptagons in the foot of the embryo are hatched .",
    "the dislocations ( pentagons plus heptagons ) are grayed .",
    "we get an extra energy of 52.7 ev . ]",
    "\\a ) the first one is required by the fact that the heptagons , shown hatched in fig .  [ fig : embryo24int ] , have to go down back to the foot of the tube . for doing that ,",
    "6 sw processes on the bounds between heptagons and octagons are done , which suppress also six of the pentagons and replace the 6 octagons by 6 heptagons : this is clearly shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : after6sw ] .",
    "the energy is now 52.7 ev .",
    "the net result is a ( 12,0 ) tube , grown by one row , plus , near its foot , 6 pentagon - heptagon pairs which are 6 dislocations , with the 6 possible bv values ( the sum of these bv is , of course , zero ) .",
    "6 more stone - wales transforms are made on the pattern shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : after6sw ] . the embryo of fig .",
    "[ fig : embryo ] has grown of one row .",
    "the heptagons in the foot of the embryo are hatched .",
    "we get an extra energy of 30.4 ev . ]",
    "\\b ) the second step must be performed in order to annihilate these dislocations .",
    "this can be done quite simply by 6 new sw processes , which are done on the 6 bounds common to two heptagons . after doing this ,",
    "we are left with a perfect ( 12,0 ) tube , with an energy of 30.4 ev ( fig .",
    "[ fig : after12sw ] ) .",
    "it is interesting to address more in detail the problem of the energy values , which seem to be much higher in the second process described above .",
    "reality is more complex : fig .",
    "[ fig : embryo24int ] to [ fig : after12sw ] show quite clearly what are the steps involved in the tube growth , but they are certainly not the most economical path for this growth .",
    "it is much better to do things like the following , from the embryo of fig .",
    "[ fig : embryo ] :     introducing 4 interstitials near the foot of the embryo , giving birth to one octagon and two pentagons .",
    " making a first sw to transform these defects into one dislocation .     making a second sw to annihilate the dislocation .     repeating 5 more times these 3 steps , which gives finally the situation depicted in fig .",
    "[ fig : after12sw ] .",
    "we have done this step - to - step process and monitored the energy , whose maximum proved to be of the order of 16 ev above the energy of the perfect embryo .",
    "this is a collar energy , substantially higher than the one we have to pass in the first defect - free process ( however , the total energy is then about 44 ev , much lower than that of the configuration in fig .",
    "[ fig : embryo24int ] ) .",
    "but the second process has the advantage of enabling the addition of carbon interstitials in the graphene basal plane , not on the sides of the embryo .",
    "embryos of ( 12,0 ) swnts , seen from above , arranged in an hexagonal network . in this case , the growth is possible without creation of dislocations ( see text ) . ]",
    "we finally tried to figure out what can be gained from considering a network of embryos instead of an isolated one .",
    "we found that when putting embryos in an suitable hexagonal network ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : network ] ) , the second process described above could be made a little simpler : after addition of 24 interstitials per embryo , step a ) described above has to be done in order to bring down the heptagons .",
    "but step b ) , with its 6 sw , is no longer needed : dislocations annihilate 3 by 3 , between neighbouring embryos .",
    "this simplification corresponds to an interesting gain in energy , the collar value being about 10 ev above the embryo energy .",
    "this is of the same order of magnitude as the first defect - free process .",
    "we can also remark that this process of growth of swnt bundles does not require that all tubes have the same helicity : it is sufficient that the geometry of the 6 created dislocations near the foot of each tube is the same , which is much less restricting .",
    "we point out that it would be interesting to get values for the energy barriers , which the present calculations , taken at equilibrium , do not enable .",
    "however , it remains difficult to understand how these growth processes involving very large energies can be efficient in quasi - equilibrium processes .",
    "an interesting possibility , considered by several authors @xcite , is that catalytic effects can reduce the energies involved .",
    "we have shown that the nucleation and growth of carbon nanotubes from a graphene basal plane can be qualitatively described with a small number of elementary processes , each of them corresponding to a moderate amount of energy .",
    "such a description does not depend on the size or helicity of the tubes .",
    "several mechanisms can be considered : one of them is made more favourable when the tubes embryos are arranged in an hexagonal network in the plane .",
    "all the proposed mechanisms can be indefinitely repeated , giving rise to a possible endless growth of the nanotubes .",
    "00[sec : biblio ] a.  maiti , c.j .",
    "brabec , j.  bernholc , phys .",
    "b 55 ( 1997 ) r6097 .",
    "j.  gavillet , a.  loiseau , c.  journet , f.  willaime , f.  ducastelle , j .- c .",
    "charlier , phys .",
    "87 ( 2001 ) 275504 .",
    "h.  kanzow , c.  lenski , a.  ding , phys .",
    "b 63 ( 2001 ) 125402 .",
    "j.  gavillet , j.  thibault , o.  stphan , h.  amara , a.  loiseau , ch .",
    "bichara , j .-",
    "gaspard , f.  ducastelle , j. nanosci .",
    "nanotech . 4 ( 2004 ) 346 .",
    "f.  ding , k.  bolton , a.  rosn , j. phys .",
    "b 108 ( 2004 ) 17369 . j.  tersoff , phys . rev . lett . 61 ( 1988 ) 2879",
    "stone , d.j .",
    "wales , chem .",
    "phys . lett . 128",
    "( 1986 ) 501 .",
    "q.  zhao , m.  buongiorno nardelli , j.  bernholc , phys .",
    "b 65 ( 2002 ) 144105 .",
    "p.  jensen , j.  gale , x.  blase , phys .",
    "b 66 ( 2002 ) 193403 .",
    "p.  lauginie , j.  conard , j. phys .",
    "chem . solids 58 ( 1997 ) 1949 .",
    "cahn , g.e .",
    "padawer , acta met . 13",
    "( 1965 ) 1091 . m.  buongiorno nardelli , b.i .",
    "yakobson , j.  bernholc , phys .",
    "81 ( 1998 ) 4656 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the nucleation and growth of single wall carbon nanotubes from a carbon - saturated catalytic particle surrounded by a single sheet of graphene is described qualitatively by using a very restricted number of elementary processes , namely stone - wales defects and carbon bi - interstitials . </S>",
    "<S> energies of the different configurations are estimated by using a tersoff energy minimization scheme . </S>",
    "<S> such a description is compatible with a broad variety of size or helicity of the tubes . </S>",
    "<S> several mechanisms of growth of the embryos are considered : one of them is made more favourable when the tubes embryos are arranged in an hexagonal network in the graphene plane . </S>",
    "<S> all the proposed mechanisms can be indefinitely repeated for the growth of the nanotubes . </S>"
  ]
}