{
  "article_text": [
    "recent developments in the fabrication techniques give rise to intensive investigations of nanoscopic regime , where the physical properties of the system strongly depend on its size .",
    "there are systems of various geometries , in which the size effects are observed .",
    "in particular , transport properties of nanosystems are of special interest . theoretical analysis of this phenomenon is difficult due to their coupling to macroscopic leads .",
    "usually , for such systems coulomb correlations can not be taken into account exactly . from this point of view , some of these systems , e.g. , nanorings , are very attractive , since their properties can be investigated without coupling to the leads",
    ". one of the most interesting features of small metallic rings is the presence of persistent currents.@xcite the currents flow along the rings in equilibrium state , when a constant external magnetic field is applied .",
    "such currents are observed in many experiments , however their magnitudes are much larger than those predicted theoretically.@xcite this discrepancy still remains an open problem .",
    "it might be attributed to the influence of electronic correlations magnetic impurities,@xcite or even superconducting fluctuations .",
    "if only one of these effects is taken into account , the problem seems to be tractable and many theoretical predictions have already been obtained .",
    "generally , it is believed that both impurities as well as electronic correlations reduce the persistent current . on the other hand , there are some indications , that the persistent current can increase , when both these effects are present . in particular , it has been shown that in the random potential two interacting electrons can propagate coherently on a much larger distance than the one  particle localization length.@xcite in some cases , the disorder may lead to @xmath0 energy levels periodicity , whereas the corresponding eigenfunctions exhibit a pairing effect.@xcite the localization length itself depends on the electronic correlations , decreasing ( increasing ) for repulsive ( attractive ) interactions.@xcite for a finite disorder , the persistent currents in the system with repulsive interactions are larger than those in the system with attractive ones.@xcite it is due to the fact that local ",
    "density fluctuations are reduced in the presence of repulsive interactions .",
    "it is also known , that such counterintuitive cooperation of correlation and disorder can take place also in macroscopic systems of higher dimensionality.@xcite the above argumentation clearly demonstrates that the interplay between disorder and electronic correlations is of crucial importance in these systems and further investigations are needed .    for many years",
    ", the investigated rings have been made out of normal metals . only recently , the technological progress allowed investigation of superconducting nanowires.@xcite as the sizes of such systems can be comparable to the coherence length , a question concerning the possible onset of superconductivity became very interesting .",
    "the experiments show that , in sufficiently thin nanowires , the superconductivity does not occur.@xcite the suppression of superconductivity is usually attributed to the destruction of the phase coherence by quantum phase slips.@xcite the spatial confinement originating from the geometry of a nanowire is responsible for an inhomogeneity of the superconducting order parameter.@xcite the physical properties of mesoscopic superconducting rings are presently intensively investigated . for extremely type ii superconductors fabrication of nanorings should be possible and will probably be the subject of future experiments .",
    "this problem contains interesting physics , because both superconducting and one  electron persistent currents may occur in such systems .",
    "moreover , one may expect that phenomena typical for low dimensional correlated systems , e.g. , charge density waves ( cdw ) , may be present as well . on the other hand , magnetic flux strongly affects the cdw ground state in ring  shaped systems@xcite and may even lead to its destruction.@xcite the cdw order could be strongly affected also by the impurities , as they play the role of pinning centers.@xcite    the aim of this paper is a detailed investigation of the nanoscopic rings with pairing correlations and impurities .",
    "in particular , we focus on the influence of impurities on competition between superconductivity and the cdw . in the first part of this contribution , we consider rings small enough to be investigated within the exact diagonalization methods , leading to rigorous results .",
    "then , we compare these results with the ones obtained for much larger systems with the help of the bogoliubov  de  gennes equations .",
    "the outline of this paper is as follows . in sec .",
    "ii we recall main results concerning the influence of the coulomb interactions on the persistent current in nanorings . in sections iii and iv",
    "we investigate nanorings with pairing interactions in the presence of impurities . in sec .",
    "iii we present rigorous results obtained from an exact diagonalization study , whereas sec .",
    "iv contains similar results obtained with the help of bdg equations for rings containing up to a few hundred sites . finally , in sec .",
    "v we summarize our results .",
    "we start our investigations with small , up to 12sites , rings described by the hubbard hamiltonian , @xmath1 where @xmath2 creates ( annihilates ) an electron on site @xmath3 with spin @xmath4 , @xmath5 is the on  site electron  electron interaction , and @xmath6 .",
    "@xmath7 is the nearest ",
    "neighbor hoping integral in the absence of magnetic field ( @xmath8 ) and @xmath9 is the peierls phase factor that describes the orbital response of the system to an external magnetic field : @xmath10 where @xmath11 is the flux quantum .",
    "this hamiltonian has exactly been diagonalized with the help of the lanczs algorithm .",
    "it is one of the most effective computational tools for searching the ground state and some low laying excited states of a finite system . from the ground state",
    ", we can compute all static and dynamic properties , and in this sense , we obtain a complete characterization of a model at low temperatures . at zero temperature the flux  induced current @xmath12",
    "is calculated as @xmath13 where @xmath14 is the ground state energy and @xmath15 is the magnetic flux piercing the ring . at finite temperature in eq .",
    "( [ current ] ) one should use the free energy @xmath16 instead of the ground state energy .",
    "unfortunately , the lanczs method gives only a few lowest eigenenergies and , therefore , the calculations are restricted to relatively low temperatures . on the other hand , for smaller systems other methods enabled us to find all the eigenenergies of the hamiltonian , and the resulting current can be obtained for an arbitrary temperature .     and various values of @xmath5 , as indicated in the legend .",
    "the lower panel shows results obtained for @xmath17 at various temperatures .",
    "we have denoted @xmath18 , width=302 ]    in fig .",
    "1 we demonstrate how the persistent currents are destroyed by the coulomb repulsion ( upper panel ) and by the increase of the temperature ( lower panel ) .",
    "it has also been shown that the persistent currents are reduced in the presence of the thermal equilibrium noise.@xcite these results are intuitive and well known and , therefore , we will not discuss them here .",
    "they are presented only for comparison with the results discussed further .    in order to account for the presence of nonmagnetic impurities we extend the hubbard hamiltonian @xmath19 where @xmath20 is the potential of an impurity at site @xmath3 .     on the electron ",
    "electron interaction ( @xmath5 ) and the impurity potential ( @xmath21 ) for a 6sites ring with a single impurity .",
    ", width=321 ]     calculated for a ring with two impurities as a function of the distance between them .",
    "we have taken @xmath22 , @xmath23 and @xmath24 .",
    "the lower ( upper ) panel corresponds to the 12sites ( 10sites ) ring . in both the panels",
    "horizontal lines indicate @xmath25 in the absence of impurity ( the lower one ) and in the presence of a single impurity ( the upper one ) .",
    ", width=302 ]    we start our investigations with a single impurity , i.e. , @xmath26 , in a small ring .",
    "the first question that arises in this case concerns the impact of the electron correlations and impurity on the magnitude of the persistent current . to answer this question , for a wide range the potentials @xmath5 and",
    "@xmath21 we have found a magnetic flux that produces the maximal value of the persistent current ( @xmath25 ) .",
    "[ fig2 ] shows how @xmath25 depends on @xmath5 and @xmath21 for the case of half  filling , i.e. , when the number of electrons is equal to the number of sites .",
    "one can see that there is a @xmath27 symmetry .",
    "it is an obvious result of the particle  hole symmetry of the hubbard model . in the case of the attractive electron ",
    "electron interaction the maximal value of @xmath25 takes place for @xmath28 , i.e. , in the absence of impurities .",
    "contrary to this result , for repulsive on  site interaction ( @xmath29 ) , @xmath25 takes on the maximal value in the presence of impurity , when @xmath30 is slightly larger than @xmath5 .",
    "it means that for a fixed value of the impurity potential the maximum of @xmath25 corresponds to the finite repulsive interaction and this result holds independently of the sign of the impurity potential . similarly , in ref .",
    "it has been shown that in a disordered ring , for the repulsive interaction the persistent current is larger than for the attractive one .",
    "it originates from the fact that repulsive interaction reduces impurity  induced density fluctuations , whereas attractive interaction may lead to cdw with impurities acting as pinning centers .",
    "one meets much more interesting situation in a case of many impurities .",
    "in particular , a question arises whether an impurity added to the previously considered ring , leads to a further enhancement or a reduction of the persistent current .",
    "the answer to this question strongly depends on the relative positions of the impurities .",
    "[ fig3 ] shows @xmath25 as a function of the distance @xmath31 between two impurities , i.e. , for @xmath32 .",
    "one can see , that for two impurities located at the nearest and the next nearest neighbors the persistent current is smaller than in the case of a single impurity but larger than for @xmath28 .",
    "then , one can see an oscillatory character of this dependence with increasing amplitude .",
    "namely , @xmath25 is enhanced ( reduced ) when the distance is odd ( even ) multiple of the lattice constant .",
    "for sufficiently large distance between impurities the persistent current may even exceed @xmath25 obtained for the case of a single impurity .",
    "the obtained oscillatory behavior may be attributed to the density oscillations induced by impurities ( friedel oscillations ) .",
    "it is expected@xcite that these oscillations asymptotically decay with the distance @xmath33 as @xmath34 .",
    "therefore , oscillations originating from different impurities may interfere .",
    "for the half  filled case , @xmath35 and the oscillations produced by impurities separated by odd ( even ) number of the lattice constants interfere destructively ( constructively ) .",
    "so far , we have focused on the case of a repulsive electron ",
    "electron interaction , and we have shown that the configuration of impurities is of vital importance for the magnitude of the persistent current . in the case of the attractive interaction one may expect that this effect should be even more pronounced , since in such a model a cdw instability occurs also in the absence of impurities .",
    "then , impurities may enhance this ordering acting as pinning centers .",
    "this problem will be investigated in the following section .",
    "we start with the attractive hubbard model without impurities . the upper panel in fig .",
    "[ fig4 ] shows the persistent current as a function of the magnetic flux for different values of the on  site pairing potential @xmath5 . as the interaction increases",
    ", the system evolves towards a state where the persistent current exhibits @xmath36 periodicity .",
    "simultaneously , one may observe a reduction of the magnitude of the persistent currents when the pairing increases .",
    "the change of periodicity may be a signature of a current made out of carriers having charge @xmath37,@xcite although one does not expect occurrence of a superconducting phase in such a small system .",
    "similar results have recently been obtained for boson ",
    "fermion model.@xcite however , the change of periodicity of the persistent current is not necessarily related to the pairing interaction .",
    "in particular , for a genuinely strong on  site repulsion , the system consisting of @xmath38 electrons shows @xmath39 and @xmath36 periodicities.@xcite therefore , it would be important to distinguish between the possible mechanisms , that may be responsible for the change of periodicity . in order to perform this task",
    ", we calculate the pairing correlation function for local cooper pairs .",
    "usually , one calculates the susceptibility of the form@xcite @xmath40 where the cooper pair creation operator is given by @xmath41 .",
    "the increase of this quantity indicates that pairing correlations are enhanced .",
    "however , in the presence of magnetic field , we can not directly use this form of the susceptibility .",
    "instead , we need a gauge  invariant quantity .",
    "this will ensure that the susceptibility will show the same periodicity as the system under investigation .",
    "therefore , we construct a hermitian matrix @xmath42 and investigate its eigenvalues .",
    "they are gauge  invariant and posses the same periodicity as the energy spectrum . in an infinite system",
    ", the superconducting instability corresponds to the divergence of @xmath43 . in such a case",
    "the maximal eigenvalue of @xmath44 , @xmath45 , diverges as well .",
    "therefore , in the presence of magnetic field we use @xmath45 as a quantity that probes the tendency towards the formation of the paired state .",
    "the lower panel of fig .",
    "[ fig4 ] shows @xmath45 as a function of magnetic field .",
    "one can see that @xmath45 strongly depends on the magnetic flux .",
    "this quantity is maximal for exactly the same values of the flux ( regime that is marked by `` a '' in fig .",
    "[ fig4 ] ) , for which the persistent currents are modified by the pairing correlations .",
    "therefore , we identify these regimes as precursors to the superconducting state . for a weak attraction",
    "the enhancement of @xmath45 in these regimes is pronounced . as the interaction strength increases , these regimes become wider , however , simultaneously the field  dependence of @xmath45 gradually vanishes .",
    "it means that for a weak interaction superconducting correlations are enhanced by specific values of the magnetic flux , whereas for strong coupling the pairing tendency is independent of the flux .",
    "this is a remnant of the little and parks results obtained for macroscopic thin superconducting films.@xcite this problem will be discussed in more detail in the following section within the bogoliubov  de gennes approach .",
    "additionally , as one may expect , the maximal value of @xmath45 increases when the paring interaction becomes stronger , supporting our interpretation of this quantity .",
    "now , we extend the analysis taking into account the impurities . it has already been shown ( see fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] ) that here , in contradistinction to the case of the repulsive interaction , a single impurity always reduces the persistent current .",
    "playing a role of a cdw pinning center , it stabilizes density waves , which compete with pairing .",
    "it shows up as a vanishing of the regime of reverse circulation of the persistent current .",
    "however , in the presence of many impurities they can reduce as well as enhance the persistent current , depending on their configuration .",
    "[ fig5 ] presents the flux dependence of the persistent currents for some configurations of two impurities .",
    ", respectively .",
    ", width=302 ]    one can see that a single impurity always reduces the persistent current and destroys the tendency towards formation of the paired state . on the other hand , when an additional impurity is introduced into the system , the persistent current can be significantly larger then in the case of a single impurity .",
    "this , however , depends on the relative position of the impurities .",
    "similarly to the case of repulsive interaction , when the distance between the impurities is an odd ( even ) multiple of the lattice constants , the persistent current and the pairing tendency are enhanced ( reduced ) .",
    "this is a result of the competition between the cdw order and the formation of cooper pairs .",
    "for the half  filled case the electron density in the cdw state oscillates with the wave  vector @xmath46 . therefore ,",
    "depending on configuration of the impurities , the density  waves pinned by them can interfere constructively or destructively , increasing or reducing the cdw order . in the first case ,",
    "the persistent current is less than in the presence of a single impurity and the tendency towards formation of the paired state is almost destroyed . in the latter case",
    "the persistent current can be as large as in the clean system .",
    "one can see from fig .",
    "[ fig5 ] that for some configurations of impurities the persistent current can be almost indistinguishable from that obtained for the clean system .     and impurity potential @xmath47 .",
    "the curves have been obtained for a system without impurities , with a single impurity , and two impurities in configurations presented in the insets .",
    ", width=302 ]",
    "in the proceeding sections we have analyzed one  dimensional systems consisting of several sites only .",
    "this limitation originated from the lanczs method , that we have used to diagonalize the hamiltonian . in this section",
    "we extend this analysis and account for finite  width rings consisting of a few hundred lattice sites .",
    "in such a case we can not use the exact diagonalization method and , therefore , the interaction term is analyzed at the mean  field level . in particular , we decouple this term in the following way : @xmath48 where the superconducting order parameter reads @xmath49 . the first term on the rhs of eq .",
    "[ mf ] is responsible for the formation of density waves . for the negative @xmath5",
    ", the second term leads to isotropic @xmath50wave superconductivity . in the following ,",
    "we assume that there is no magnetic ordering , i.e. , @xmath51 . as the system under investigation is inhomogeneous , both the superconducting and cdw order parameters are site ",
    "dependent and have to be determined in a self  consistent way from the bogoliubov  de gennes ( bdg ) equations.@xcite this approach has most commonly been used for the investigation of the vortex structure in macroscopic superconducting systems.@xcite we introduce a set of new fermionic operators @xmath52 : @xmath53 where @xmath54 here , the single particle hamiltonian is given by @xmath55 where @xmath56 is the chemical potential .",
    "the superconducting oder parameter is determined self  consistently by : @xmath57 also , the local electron concentration is calculated self  consistently in the following way : @xmath58 where @xmath59 is the fermi distribution function .",
    "this quantity allows one to define the cdw order parameter : @xmath60 where @xmath61 is the average concentration of electrons in the ring . up to this point , we have investigated total current flowing along the one  dimensional ring .",
    "now , we investigate the current distribution in a ring of a finite width .",
    "we follow the procedure described in ref . .",
    "namely , the current from site @xmath3 to the neighboring site @xmath62 reads : @xmath63 , where @xmath64 is the integral of the vector potential between sites @xmath3 and @xmath62 .",
    "then , it is easy to show that @xmath65.\\end{aligned}\\ ] ]      we have solved the bdg equations for rings of sizes @xmath66 , where @xmath67 . in order to determine how the properties of the ring depend on its size , we have started our investigations with a system without impurities . due to the small size of the system",
    "the influence of its edge is non  negligible and results in an inhomogeneity of @xmath68.@xcite however , the differences of flux dependence of @xmath68 between various lattice sites are of quantitative character only . therefore",
    ", we present results for one particular site , that is close to the midway point between the ring s edges . in fig .",
    "[ fig6 ] we show the magnitude of the superconducting order parameter as a function of the applied magnetic flux at low temperature and for various @xmath69 .     and @xmath70 have been used .",
    "we have marked regions a and b ( see the text).,width=302 ]    one can see that the flux dependence of the order parameter increases with decreasing circumference of the ring . at low temperature ,",
    "the magnitude of @xmath68 takes on two different values . in analogy to fig .",
    "[ fig4 ] we denote the regimes of high and low values of @xmath71 as a and b , respectively . comparing figs .",
    "[ fig6 ] and [ fig7 ] , one can note opposite directions of the supercurrent s circulation respectively to the normal  state persistent current in regimes a and b. moreover , the regime a ( b ) becomes wider ( narrower ) when the circumference increases . in the case of infinite circumference of the ring ,",
    "the normal  state persistent currents vanish , regimes a and b become indistinguishable , and the system exactly exhibits @xmath36 periodicity .",
    "the flux dependence of the superconducting order parameter is similar to that of the pair susceptibility calculated for smaller rings with the help of the lanczs method .",
    "however , in the latter case the regime a is much narrower due to much smaller ring s size .",
    "it is well known that the mean  field approximation is inappropriate for low  dimensional systems .",
    "however , it seems that this simple approach correctly describes the persistent currents in small rings with weak local attraction .    in fig .",
    "[ fig7 ] we compare persistent currents in the normal and superconducting states .",
    "it is interesting that in regime b , the persistent current is the same in the presence and in the absence of the pairing interaction .",
    "again , similar behavior has been obtained in the exact diagonalization study , presented in the proceeding section . in the upper panel of fig .",
    "[ fig4 ] one can see that for weak attraction the persistent current in the regime b hardly depends on @xmath5 .",
    "finally , we investigate how the flux dependence of the order parameter depends on temperature in the case of nanoscopic rings .",
    "it has been well known since the famous experiment of little and park that properties of a superconducting thin film deposited on an insulating cylinder depend on an axial magnetic field.@xcite in particular , the transition temperature is a periodic function of the magnetic flux with a period @xmath36.@xcite this experiment has been carried out for a macroscopic system .",
    "[ fig8 ] shows similar dependence for a small ring , where the finite  size effects are important . as one may expect also in this case the transition temperature is flux dependent",
    "however , there is a visible deviation from the @xmath36 periodicity .",
    "generally , in the regime b the superconducting order parameter is less than in the regime a. when the temperature increases , superconductivity first disappears in the regime b and then in the regime a. the same effect can be observed when the temperature is fixed but the pairing potential is reduced.@xcite however , in contradistinction to the macroscopic film , in the present case , the vanishing of superconductivity does not correspond to the vanishing of current . comparing figs .",
    "[ fig7 ] and [ fig8 ] one can note that the current remains finite also for @xmath72 .",
    "ring without impurities.,width=302 ]    , but at various temperatures.,width=302 ]      in the case of small one  dimensional rings the presence of impurities significantly changes the persistent current . in the following ,",
    "we show that the effect is very important in much larger rings as well .",
    "this holds also if the concentration of impurities is relatively low .",
    "in particular , similarly to the one - dimensional case , the presence of a single impurity strongly reduces superconductivity .",
    "it originates from the pinning of the density wave , that competes with the superconductivity . in the case of many impurities , both the cdw and",
    "superconducting orders may coexist in the ring .",
    "however , the competition between cdw and superconductivity leads to a spatial separation of regions , where these orders dominate .",
    "the distribution of these regions is determined by the configuration of impurities . in the vicinity of impurities , the cdw order dominates .",
    "this enhancement of the cdw order is strongest , if the impurities are located in such a way , that the pinned density waves are in phase .",
    "otherwise , the effect of impurities is much less important .",
    "this is a result of vanishing of the cdw order parameter somewhere in between the impurities . in the region of vanishing cdw order ,",
    "the superconductivity is strongly enhanced .",
    "this effect is similar to that obtained for the vortex structure in ref .",
    ", where the @xmath31wave superconductivity competes with @xmath31density waves .    fig .",
    "[ fig9 ] shows the spatial distribution of the cdw and superconducting order parameters .",
    "the positions of the impurities are indicated by vertical arrows . in order to prove that the competition between these orders is responsible for their spatial distribution , we present also the sum of squares of the order parameters , @xmath73 . this quantity is almost constant over the whole ring ( except for a very close vicinity of the impurities ) , what confirms our interpretation .     and @xmath68 , respectively , in @xmath74 ring for @xmath75 , @xmath76 at @xmath70 .",
    "the third stripe shows @xmath73 .",
    "arrows above the third stripe indicate the sites , where impurities are located . for the sake of legibility ,",
    "the ring has been cut and unfolded.,width=370 ]",
    "we have presented numerical analysis of a nanoscopic ring pierced by an external magnetic flux .",
    "a large number of factors affecting the properties of the ring has been taken into account .",
    "in particular , we have rigorously treated the electron ",
    "electron interaction , demonstrating its role in the reduction of the persistent current .",
    "this effect , however , can be much less effective when impurities are introduced into the ring .",
    "it has been shown that the restoration of the persistent current occurs as a result of a reduction of density oscillations by the impurities .",
    "this is possible only for specific configurations of the impurities , namely , when the pinned density oscillations cancel each other out .",
    "other configurations lead to an enhancement of the density oscillations and , simultaneously , to a reduction of the current .",
    "the presence of the impurities strongly affects the superconducting properties of a nanoring as well .",
    "one may not expect a superconductivity in a system consisting of several lattice sites only , but the tendency toward the formation of a paired state can be analyzed . in particular , we have investigated a ring with an attractive on  site interaction . in order to estimate the strength of the pairing instability we have calculated the maximal eigenvalue of the pair ",
    "susceptibility  matrix .",
    "this is a gauge invariant quantity that possesses the same space symmetry as the system and increases with the amplitude of the pairing potential .",
    "we have shown that abrupt changes in the persistent current coincide with changes of the pair susceptibility .",
    "for very large pairing potential all electrons are paired and the flux dependence of the persistent current is the same as for free carriers of charge @xmath37 .    in the case of the attractive potential ,",
    "the presence of impurities and their configuration are even more important than for a repulsive potential .",
    "it originates from the fact than for attractive interaction there is a competition between the cdw and superconductivity even in the absence of impurities , whereas for @xmath29 the density  oscillations occur only in the vicinity of impurities .",
    "we have shown that impurities affect the superconducting properties indirectly , through an enhancement or a reduction of the cdw order .",
    "there is a single mechanism that determines how impurities affect both the persistent current for @xmath29 and the pair susceptibility for @xmath77 .",
    "therefore , if a given impurity configuration leads to an enhancement of the persistent current for @xmath29 , the same configuration leads also to an enhancement of the pairing tendency for @xmath77 .",
    "the exact diagonalization analysis has been supplemented by the bogoliubov  de gennes study of much larger rings of a finite width .",
    "qualitatively both the approaches give similar results concerning the competition between superconductivity and cdw .",
    "in particular , the flux dependence of the pair susceptibility in the first case exactly corresponds to that of the pairing amplitude in the latter case .",
    "the role of impurities and their configuration in both the cases are the same as well .",
    "moreover , the bdg approach allowed us to investigate larger systems that exhibit bulk superconductivity and then , reducing their sizes , to trace how the properties change when entering the nano regime .",
    "the mean  field approximation is generally inappropriate for the low  dimensional systems .",
    "however , a comparison of the results obtained with the help of lanczs and bdg methods indicates that the mean  field approach gives qualitatively correct results for the persistent currents in small rings with a weak pairing interaction .    to summarize ,",
    "we have demonstrated how imperfectness modifies nanoscopic properties of small rings with electronic correlations .",
    "this investigations are important in connection with the recent developments in nanotechnology .",
    "in particular , it is possible to fabricate nanorings with arbitrary configuration of impurities and , in this way , to control the rings properties .",
    "99 n. byers and c. n. yang , phys .",
    "* 46 * , 7 ( 1961 ) .",
    "m. bttiker , y. imry and r. landauer , phys . lett . *",
    "96a * , 365 ( 1983 ) .",
    "lvy , g. dolan , j. dunsmuir , and h. bouchiat , phys .",
    "64 * , 2074 ( 1990 ) ; v. chandrasekhar , r. a. webb , m. j. brady , m. b. ketchen , w. j. gallagher , and a. kleinsasser , phys . rev . lett . * 67 * , 3578 ( 1991 ) .",
    "p. schwab , u. eckern , z. phys .",
    "b * 103 * , 97,(1997 ) .",
    "d. l. shepelyansky , phys .",
    "* 73 * , 2607 ( 1994 ) .",
    "d. weinmann , a. mller  groeling , j.l .",
    "pichard , and k. frahm , phys .",
    "* 75 * , 1598 ( 1995 ) .",
    "a. g. aronov , and yu .",
    "v. sharvin , rev .",
    "phys . * 59 * , 755 ( 1987 ) .",
    "p. schmitteckert and u. eckern , phys .",
    "b * 53 * , 15397 ( 1996 ) .",
    "t. giamarchi and b. s. shastry , phys . rev .",
    "b * 51 * , 10915 ( 1995 ) .",
    "k. byczuk , w. hofstetter , and d. vollhardt , phys .",
    "lett . * 94 * , 056404 ( 2005 ) .",
    "a. bezryadin , c. n. lau , and m. tinkham , nature ( london ) * 404 * , 971 ( 2000 ) . c. n. lau , n. markovic , m. bockrath , a. bezryadin , and m. tinkham , phys .",
    "lett . * 87 * , 217003 ( 2001 ) .",
    "a. d. zaikin , d. s. golubev , a. van otterlo , and g. t. zimanyi , phys .",
    "rev . lett . * 78 * , 1552 ( 1997 ) .",
    "d. s. golubev and a. d. zaikin , phys .",
    "b * 64 * , 014504 ( 2001 ) .",
    "j. e. han and vincent h. crespi , phys .",
    "b * 69 * , 214526 ( 2004 ) .",
    "b. nathanson , o. entin ",
    "wohlman , and b. mhlschlegel , phys .",
    "b * 45 * , 3499 ( 1992 ) .",
    "j. yi , m. y. choi , k. park , and e. h. lee , phys .",
    "lett . * 78 * , 3523 ( 1997 ) .",
    "h. fukuyama and p. a. lee , phys .",
    "b * 17 * , 535 ( 1978 ) .",
    "j. dajka , j. uczka , m. szopa , and e. zipper , rev .",
    "b * 67 * , 073305 ( 2003 ) .",
    "n. byers and c. n. yang , phys .",
    "lett . * 7 * , 46 ( 1961 ) . c. n. yang , rev .",
    "phys . * 34 * , 694 ( 1962 ) .",
    "m. cuoco , c. noce , j. ranninger , and a. romano , phys .",
    "b * 67 * , 224504 ( 2003 ) .",
    "f. v. kusmartsev , phys .",
    "b * 52 * , 14445 ( 1995 ) . p. koskinen and m. manninen , phys .",
    "b * 68 * , 195304 ( 2003 ) .",
    "e. dagotto , a. moreo , f. ortolani , d. poilblanc , and j. riera , phys .",
    "b * 45 * , 10741 ( 1992 ) .",
    "r. d. parks and w. a. little , phys .",
    "133 * , a97 ( 1964 ) .",
    "p. g. de gennes , _ superconductivity of metals and alloys _",
    "( w. a. benjamin , new york , 1966 ) . y. wang and a. h. macdonald , phys .",
    "rev . b*52 * , r3876 ( 1995 ) .",
    "ghosal , c. kallin , and a. j. berlinsky , phys .",
    "b * 66 * , 214502 ( 2002 ) .",
    "m. maka and m. mierzejewski , phys .",
    "b * 68 * , 024513 ( 2003 ) . j. j. hogan - oneill , a. m. martin , j. f. annett , phys . rev .",
    "b * 60 * , 3568 ( 1999 ) .",
    "j. e. han and v. h. crespi , phys . rev .",
    "b * 69 * , 214526 ( 2004 ) .",
    "zhu and z. d. wang , phys .",
    "b. * 50 * , 7207 ( 1994 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the properties of nanoscopic rings with electronic correlations and impurities are analyzed numerically by means of two complementary methods . </S>",
    "<S> namely , we perform exact diagonalization of systems up to several lattice sites and bogoliubov  de gennes  equations studies of systems consisting of a few hundred sites . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate how the properties of the systems are affected by various configurations of impurities for both repulsive and attractive electron  electron interactions . in the case of attractive interaction </S>",
    "<S> we show that the nanoscopic properties are mainly determined by the competition between tendencies toward pairing and formation of the density waves . </S>",
    "<S> since the impurities act as pinning centers for the density waves , their configuration determines the result of this competition .    </S>"
  ]
}