{
  "article_text": [
    "the nature of the magnetic excitation spectrum of the cuprates is an important topic in its own right .",
    "but it has many implications beyond this as well .",
    "it is of special relevance to those theories that propose a ` magnetic ' origin for cuprate superconductivity @xcite . and",
    "it is of particular interest to the current debate whether magnetic excitations or phonons are responsible for certain strong coupling features observed in tunnelling , infrared conductivity , and angle resolved photoemission spectra @xcite .",
    "although there are a large number of theories for explaining the observed magnetic excitation spectrum , to a first approximation , these theories can be collapsed into two groups .",
    "the first are linear response calculations based on a two dimensional fermi surface and the presence of a d - wave energy gap . in this group are included calculations which go beyond rpa ( such as flex @xcite ) and the generalization to the particle - particle channel of the so(5 ) approach @xcite .",
    "the other group are those based on coupled spin ladders @xcite .",
    "they assume phase segregation of the material into undoped antiferromagnetic domains separated by one - dimensional ` stripes ' containing the doped holes .",
    "they have the advantage of treating the full quantum mechanical nature of the spins , but have the disadvantage that fermionic degrees of freedom are neglected .",
    "it is not the intent here to discuss the relative merits of one approach versus the other . in some sense ,",
    "both theories are different limits of a more complex theory which properly treats spin and charge degrees of freedom .",
    "rather , i wish to discuss what success linear response calculations have in regards to describing magnetic excitation properties of the cuprates , but as well discuss their limitations .",
    "in particular , i wish to address the question of whether there is a ` universal ' behavior of the spin excitation spectrum based on the rpa results . ultimately , i hope these results will have some relevance to a final understanding of the magnetic behavior of these fascinating materials .",
    "the rpa expression for the interacting susceptibility is @xmath7 in this equation , @xmath8 is the polarization bubble constructed from bare greens functions , and @xmath9 is the effective hubbard interaction which results from projection onto the single band subspace ( that is , the band that is the antibonding combination of copper @xmath10 and oxygen @xmath11 and @xmath12 orbitals @xcite ) .    it is often stated that rpa is a weak coupling approach , applicable only to heavily overdoped materials which exhibit fermi liquid like behavior @xcite .",
    "but it was shown by schrieffer , wen , and zhang @xcite that rpa reproduces the superexchange j and the resulting spin wave dispersion of the undoped material .",
    "obviously , there are important quantum corrections to these results , but these do not impact the overall correctness of the approach .",
    "one important point to remark is that the calculation of ref .   was self - consistent in the sense that the gapless nature of the spin excitations at @xmath13 is a direct consequence of the mean - field equation for the hubbard gap .",
    "such self - consistency is difficult to implement in the doped case because of the added complication of having to calculate the screening caused by the doped holes .",
    "there are two ways to proceed for the doped case .",
    "continue to use bare greens functions and replace @xmath9 by an effective @xmath14 which accounts for screening @xcite . or take the infinite @xmath9 limit , replace the greens functions by those of the t - j model , and replace @xmath9 by @xmath15 where @xmath15 takes into account the reduction of @xmath16 by the introduction of doped holes ( in the t - j approach , one is forced to scale @xmath16 down to prevent a magnetic instability from occurring @xcite ) .",
    "an important additional remark is that the screened interaction is now dependent on transfered momentum , @xmath17 .",
    "this is particularly clear in the t - j model , where @xmath18 due to exchange between near neighbor copper sites .",
    "one limitation of the rpa approach is the use of bare greens functions as opposed to dressed ones .",
    "but it is well known that using dressed greens functions means that vertex corrections must be included @xcite .",
    "the neglect of such vertex corrections typically leads to worse results than the rpa .",
    "the approach taken in this paper will be somewhat more phenomenological .",
    "the bare greens functions will be based on dispersions derived from angle resolved photoemission .",
    "the resulting @xmath14 will be taken as an adjustable constant , designed to reproduce the location of the s=1 resonance mode at @xmath13 .",
    "calculations have been performed as well assuming @xmath14 has the same q dependence as @xmath19 . in a more complete theory",
    ", one might work instead within the context of dynamical mean field theory and its cluster generalization @xcite .",
    "the heart of the rpa calculation turns out to be the structure of the bare polarization bubble , @xmath8 . for a superconductor",
    "this is @xcite @xmath20 where @xmath21 .",
    "the coherence factors play a critical role in the results @xcite . for an s - wave superconductor , the coherence factor ( in term 3 of eq .",
    "2 ) vanishes on the fermi surface .",
    "the net result is that there are no spin collective modes in this case . on the other hand , for an order parameter satisfying the condition @xmath22 ,",
    "the coherence factor becomes maximal on the fermi surface ( equal to 2 ) . as a consequence ,",
    "the imaginary part of the bubble has a step discontinuity at threshold , and thus the real part has a logarithmic divergence .",
    "this divergence guarantees the appearance of a collective mode below threshold .",
    "this collective mode energy at @xmath13 will be denoted as the resonance energy .",
    "there is a common misconception that the appearance of the collective mode requires the presence of a d - wave superconducting gap .",
    "in fact , the only requirement is that the coherence factors do not vanish on the fermi surface .",
    "as an example , imagine that the pseuodgap phase is a phase disordered version of a superconductor . to a first approximation , we can then set @xmath23=0 @xcite . in this case , the coherence factor is now unity on the fermi surface independent of the value of @xmath24 , and one finds a collective mode below threshold as in the case of a d - wave superconductor .",
    "as the coherence factor is now half that of the superconductor , then larger values of @xmath14 are needed to obtain similar collective mode energies . in this paper , a d - wave order parameter of the form",
    "@xmath25 is assumed , although for some calculations the phase disordered approximation was invoked as well .",
    "finally , some technical remarks .",
    "2 is solved by replacing @xmath26 by some finite @xmath27 and doing a simple sum over the brillouin zone .",
    "the smaller @xmath27 is , the more k points are needed in the sum .",
    "results have been generated for @xmath27 ranging between 0.1 and 2 mev , with zone meshes ranging from 400 by 400 to 4000 by 4000 , but in this paper , results are shown for @xmath27=2 mev ( 400 by 400 mesh ) .",
    "all calculations were performed for a temperature of 1 mev .",
    "all susceptibilities quoted here are states per ev per cuo@xmath3 formula unit and should be multiplied by the matrix element @xmath28 to compare to experiment .",
    "the most important input into the rpa calculations is the assumed form of the fermionic dispersion .",
    "for instance , a well studied case is a tight binding model with just near neighbor hopping @xcite . when considering the response at @xmath13 , the threshold for the polarization bubble corresponds to exciting from the node of the d - wave order parameter , @xmath29 , to an unoccupied state , @xmath30 , along the zone diagonal . as such ,",
    "the threshold is independent of the d - wave energy gap .",
    "the fermi surfaces observed by angle resolved photoemission , though , differ considerably from those predicted by a near neighbor tight binding model . in particular , the observed fermi surfaces are characterized by ` hot spots ' , that is , points on the fermi surface which satisfy the condition @xmath31 . in this case , the threshold of the bubble at @xmath13 is determined by twice the energy gap at the hot spots .     in the normal state at zero energy along the symmetry axes of the zone for ( a ) tb1 ( b ) tb2 ( c ) tb3 and ( d ) tb4 .",
    "the zone notation is in @xmath32 units.,width=326 ]    .",
    "the dynamic range is the same as in fig .",
    "1.,width=326 ]    when considering the response for a general @xmath17 , there is even more sensitivity to the assumed fermionic dispersion . to illustrate this point , in fig .  1",
    ", i show the real part of the normal state ( @xmath33 ) bubble at @xmath34 for four different dispersions along the three symmetry axes of the 2d brillouin zone .",
    "the first dispersion ( tb1 ) is that based on an early tight binding fit to arpes spectra on bi2212 @xcite .",
    "two prominent features are observed ( fig .",
    "first , there is a broad maximum around @xmath13 .",
    "second , there are incommensurate peaks along the bond and diagonal directions which correspond to scattering between the antinodal sections of the fermi surface near the @xmath35 points . as can be seen from the 2d plot in fig .",
    "2a , this scattering forms a square box around the zone center , with maximum intensity at the box corners .",
    "these peaks in the zero @xmath27 limit are logarithmically divergent @xcite .",
    "although potentially important for the charge response , they are probably not so for the spin response ( since @xmath19 has opposite sign in this region of the zone ) .    the other noticeable feature of fig .",
    "1a is the broad maximum around @xmath13 . as a consequence , in the gapped case ,",
    "the dominant behavior below the resonance energy is commensurate @xcite .",
    "but this behavior is actually the exception , rather than the rule . at this point ,",
    "a discussion on how the fermionic dispersion is chosen is in order @xcite .",
    "a fit is performed using a six parameter tight binding model which includes real space lattice vectors of type ( 0,0 ) , ( 1,0 ) , ( 1,1 ) , ( 2,0 ) , ( 2,1 ) , and ( 2,2 ) . in the original analysis ,",
    "the fitting variables were ( 1 ) the position of the fermi surface along @xmath36 ( the node ) , ( 2 ) the fermi velocity at the node , ( 3 ) the fermi surface along @xmath37 ( the antinode ) , ( 4 ) the energy at @xmath35 , ( 5 ) the curvature of the dispersion at @xmath35 ( along the @xmath38 direction ) , and ( 6 ) the energy at @xmath39 ( this last condition is simply for stability of the fit ) .",
    "the behavior around @xmath13 in fig .",
    "1a is largely a consequence of the fact that the saddle point energy at @xmath35 , -34 mev , is close to the fermi energy . for dispersions where",
    "this is displaced deeper in energy , a minimum is found in re @xmath8 at @xmath13 rather than a maximum .    to illustrate this",
    ", a tight binding analysis has been performed on the latest high resolution arpes measurements on optimal doped bi2212 @xcite .",
    "these data reveal an isotropic fermi velocity with a value of 1.5 ev@xmath40 .",
    "fixing this condition forces the energy at @xmath35 to lie at -119 mev , as compared to -34 mev in the earlier fit @xcite .",
    "this difference ( dispersion tb2 ) has a profound effect on the real part of the bubble , as can be seen in fig .",
    "now , incommensurate peaks are observed around @xmath13 as well , and as can be seen in fig .",
    "2b , they form a diamond shaped pattern .",
    "this structure is actually discernible in fig .",
    "1a as kinks , but it is obscured by the dominant maximum around @xmath13 .",
    "the behavior of fig .",
    "1b is also found for the t , t@xmath41 dispersion used in ref .",
    ", as the @xmath35 point in that case is at -129 mev .",
    ".,width=326 ]    the incommensurate effects can also be strengthened by flattening the fermi surface around the node @xcite . a dispersion which incorporates this effect , as well as the presence of a flat quasiparticle band near @xmath35 , has the fermi surface illustrated in fig .",
    "3c ( this is dispersion tb3 of ref .  , and is denoted as tb3 here as well ) . in this case , the effect of the enhanced incommensurability and the tendency to have a maximum at @xmath13 due to the small energy of the @xmath35 point ( -10 mev ) approximately balance , leading to a net flat behavior around @xmath13 , as can be seen in fig .",
    "one issue is that there is not much inelastic neutron scattering data on bi2212 because of the small sample sizes , though this is starting to change.@xcite a large amount of data is present for ybco , but the electronic structure of this material is complicated because of its strong orthorhombicity and the presence of metallic chain layers .",
    "instead , i consider lsco .",
    "this material has the advantage of having extensive inelastic neutron scattering data and a simpler electronic structure ( no bilayer splitting ) .",
    "recently , tranquada and co - workers @xcite have pointed out that the inelastic magnetic response of non - superconducting la@xmath42ba@xmath43cuo@xmath2 ( lbco ) is very similar to that of superconducting ybco @xcite , which makes this material of particular interest .",
    "extensive arpes data exist on lsco .",
    "recently , an in depth study was done on underdoped lsco @xcite and revealed a quite striking fermi surface ( fig .",
    "the fermi surface is characterized by two straight sections , one centered about the node , the other about the antinode .",
    "this fermi surface , and the observed dispersion ( denoted as tb4 ) , is fit using the condition ( 1 ) node at ( 0.44,0.44)@xmath32 , ( 2 ) velocity at the node ( 1.8 ev@xmath40 ) , ( 3 ) curvature of the fermi surface at the node ( zero ) , ( 4 ) antinode at ( 1,0.18)@xmath32 , ( 5 ) @xmath35 energy at -70 mev , and ( 6 ) @xmath39 energy at 1 ev ( for fit stability ) .",
    "the result for the zero frequency real response is shown in figs .",
    "1d and 2d .",
    "again , note the strong  box - like \" structure around the zone center , and the pronounced incommensurate behavior around @xmath39 due to the flat fermi surface near the node . in this context , it should be noted that the box - like structure near @xmath44 is due to nesting of the antinodal regions , but the diamond - like structure near @xmath13 is due to nesting of the nodal regions .",
    "this is in contrast with the alternate stripes model , where the incommensurability around these two @xmath17 vectors have the same origin .",
    ".tight binding dispersions based on angle resolved photoemission data .",
    "the first four columns list the coefficient , @xmath45 , of each term ( ev ) , that is @xmath46 .",
    "the last column lists the basis functions ( the lattice constant @xmath47 is set to unity ) .",
    "below this are several properties of these dispersions - the node , @xmath48 , the antinode , @xmath49 ( in @xmath50 units ) , the nodal velocity , @xmath51 , the antinodal velocity , @xmath52 ( in ev@xmath40 ) , the energy at @xmath35 , @xmath53 ( ev ) , the bandwidth , w ( ev ) , and the value of @xmath9 needed for resonance at 40 mev in the superconducting state . [ cols=\">,>,>,>,^ \" , ]     a summary of the properties of these four tight binding dispersions are listed in table 1 .",
    "a number of other tight binding dispersions have been analyzed as well , including some that account for bilayer splitting @xcite .",
    "the results fall within the range of behavior discussed for the four dispersions here .",
    "in addition , bilayer splitting leads to some extra details in the even ( optic ) spin response due to differing momentum locations of features from bonding - bonding and antibonding - antibonding responses @xcite . for simplicity ,",
    "these details are not discussed here as they do not occur in the dominant odd ( acoustic ) spin channel which involves only the bonding - antibonding response .",
    "the presence of a d - wave energy gap leads to a polarization bubble which now becomes gapped for all @xmath17 vectors in the first zone but two ( these vectors being the ones that connect the nodes of the d - wave order parameter ) .",
    "because of the strong anisotropy of the d - wave gap , the lower edge of the particle - hole continuum also has a strong @xmath17 dependence .",
    "this continuum edge is plotted along the zone symmetry axes in fig .  4 for the four dispersions studied here .",
    "the threshold at @xmath39 corresponds to twice the energy gap at the hot spots .",
    "as one moves away from this wavevector , the threshold splits @xcite into several ones : two for @xmath54 along @xmath55 , and three for @xmath54 along @xmath56 . along @xmath56 ,",
    "the zero threshold at @xmath57 obviously corresponds to two nodal points , the analogous minimum along @xmath55 involving only one nodal point ( the other being at @xmath58 ) .     and",
    "the zone notation is in @xmath32 units.,width=326 ]    as briefly discussed above , the effect of an energy gap has a profound impact on the polarization bubble .",
    "the presence of an energy gap , along with the fact that the coherence factors at threshold do not generally vanish in the d - wave case , leads to a step jump in the imaginary part of the bubble at threshold . by kramers - kronig",
    ", such a step jump causes a logarithmic divergence in the real part of the bubble at threshold . as a consequence",
    ", any finite value of @xmath9 will lead to the presence of a collective mode below threshold .",
    "the exception is in those cases where @xmath59 and @xmath60 have the same sign , which in the d - wave case can occur for @xmath17 vectors significantly displaced from @xmath39 .",
    "in addition , for a pole to occur , then @xmath9 must have a positive sign ( this is relevant to near - neighbor exchange models , where the positive sign only occurs for @xmath61 ) .",
    "the value of @xmath9 needed to have a pole at @xmath13 at a particular energy varies significantly among the dispersions looked at here ( the values for 40 mev are also listed in table 1 ) .",
    "this is a combination of the different fermi surfaces shown in fig .  3 , the different energies of the van hove singularity at @xmath35 for these dispersions , and the different overall bandwidths .",
    "this variation of @xmath9 involves a rather subtle issue concerning whether one uses a bare dispersion based on band theory , or a renormalized ( quasiparticle ) dispersion , for @xmath62 in eq .  2 ( and also the issue of bilayer splitting ) .",
    "again , the purpose here is to simply look at a range of dispersions and contrast their behaviors .    figs .",
    "5 - 8 show the variation of the imaginary part of the rpa susceptibility ( eq .  1 ) with @xmath9 tuned to yield a pole at @xmath13 at 40 mev ( 50 mev for dispersions tb2 and",
    "tb4 - the reason for this difference will be discussed below ) .",
    "@xmath9 was treated as a constant , though calculations were also performed for @xmath63 .",
    "a maximum energy gap of 30 mev was assumed .     for tb1 at ( a ) 10 mev ( b ) 30 mev ( c ) 40 mev and ( d ) 50 mev .",
    "the maximum d - wave gap is 30 mev , and @xmath9 ( 0.274 ev ) is chosen to give a resonance at 40 mev . in figs .  5 - 8",
    ", the lower left corner is at @xmath64 , the center at @xmath39 .",
    "scale is such that the lowest is 0 and the highest is ( a ) 0.7 ( b ) 4.4 ( c ) 112 and ( d ) 21.3,width=326 ]    fig .",
    "5 shows results for tb1 . at low energies , one sees weak intensity near @xmath65 corresponding to the nodes .",
    "as the energy is raised to exceed the minimum threshold along @xmath55 , this incommensurate pattern rotates 45 degrees .",
    "the preference for this rotated pattern was discussed by schulz @xcite and is a consequence of the fact that translation by @xmath56 only brings the fermi surface into coincidence in one quadrant of the zone , but translation by @xmath55 brings it into coincidence in two quadrants ( fig .",
    "in addition , though , one sees a global maximum at @xmath13 which is a consequence of the global maximum seen in the normal state response at zero energy discussed earlier . above the resonance energy ( 40 mev ) , the response becomes incommensurate , with the displacement of the maxima away from @xmath39 increasing in magnitude ( but the response decreasing in strength ) with increasing energy . for a range of energies above resonance ( @xmath66 12 mev ) , the incommensurate response corresponds to damped poles , and mostly has maxima along along @xmath55 , but for some energies the maxima are along @xmath56 .",
    "this is due to the anisotropy of the splitting of the particle - hole threshold as one moves away from @xmath39 .",
    "the overall response is best appreciated by plotting the intensity as a function of energy along the ( x , x ) direction in momentum space as shown in fig .",
    "10a . in the pole region",
    "( 40 - 52 mev ) , one sees a magnon - like ( quadratic ) dispersion . above this region , the response rapidly loses strength and the dispersion becomes more steep .     for tb2 at ( a ) 10 mev ( b ) 30 mev ( c ) 50 mev and ( d ) 100 mev .",
    "the maximum d - wave gap is 30 mev , and @xmath9 ( 0.508 ev ) is chosen to give a resonance at 50 mev .",
    "scale is such that the lowest is 0 and the highest is ( a ) 6.3 ( b ) 20.6 ( c ) 22.6 and ( d ) 7.0,width=326 ]",
    "i now contrast this behavior with that from the next dispersion , tb2 .",
    "this dispersion , based on arpes fits to the bonding fermi surface in bi2212 , has ( 1 ) an isotropic velocity around the fermi surface and ( 2 ) an energy for the @xmath35 point which is much deeper than for tb1 ( -119 mev as compared to -34 mev ) . as a consequence ,",
    "this dispersion yields a bubble whose real part has a relatively weak momentum dependence , and is very typical of many of the dispersions used in the theoretical literature .",
    "in fact , the momentum dependence is so weak , that with a constant @xmath9 , the condition to yield a resonance at 40 mev at @xmath39 implies the presence of long range order ( that is , there is a @xmath17 value at zero energy where the real part of the bubble exceeds 1/@xmath9 ) .",
    "this forces us to move the resonance condition close to the edge of the continuum ( where the real part of the bubble has a peak ) in order to avoid this problem . and obviously ,",
    "because of the weak momentum dependence , the value of @xmath9 needed to obtain a resonance condition is significantly larger than for tb1 .",
    "the results are plotted in figs .  6 and 10b . below resonance , despite the lack of a commensurate response , the incommensurate response is similar to tb1 , being dominated by node - node processes at low energies , and then rotating to a bond centered response once the minimum of the continuum edge along @xmath55 is exceeded .",
    "the response becomes commensurate at resonance ( 50 mev ) , then one has a weak incommensurate response above resonance whose maxima generally sit along the diagonals .",
    "although this 45 degree rotation of the incommensurate maxima is indeed what is seen in ybco @xcite and lbco @xcite , the incommensurate response above resonance still has an overall diamond shape to it unlike experiment .",
    "this shape is a consequence of 2@xmath67 scattering which can be seen as well in the normal state ( fig .",
    "the overall behavior is best appreciated in fig .  10b , where in contrast to dispersion tb1 , a very clear ` reverse magnon ' dispersion is evident for the resonance mode .",
    "above resonance , the incommensurate response is almost dispersionless , and seems to follow the steep particle - hole response involving scattering along the zone diagonal ( dashed line in fig .",
    "this steepness is due to the high fermi velocity along the nodal direction and unlike the rest of the continuum response , is independent of the energy gap .     for tb3 at ( a ) 10 mev ( b ) 30 mev ( c ) 40 mev and ( d ) 50 mev .",
    "the maximum d - wave gap is 30 mev , and @xmath9 ( 0.214 ev ) is chosen to give a resonance at 40 mev .",
    "scale is such that the lowest is 0 and the highest is ( a ) 4.0 ( b ) 101 ( c ) 112 and ( d ) 10.6,width=326 ]    the next dispersion , tb3 , had been designed to enhance the incommensurability by flattening the fermi surface around the node . in fig .  7",
    ", one can see the strong diamond - shaped incommesurate pattern below resonance that is a result of the enhanced fermi surface nesting in the nodal region .",
    "the evolution of the pattern is again a diagonal response at very low energies due to node - node processes , a rotation by 45 degrees to a bond centered pattern once the threshold along @xmath55 is exceeded , commensurability at resonance ( 40 mev ) , and then again a complicated incommensurate response above resonance due to the anisotropic splitting of the continuum edge as one moves away from @xmath39 .",
    "the overall dispersion of the magnetic response is most visible in fig .",
    "note the pronounced downward dispersion of the resonance which represents a true pole in the rpa susceptibility in this case ( this response is below the continuum edge ) .",
    "one then sees a weak intensity gap near the node - node vector due to crossing into the continuum ( the so - called silent band @xcite ) . beyond this",
    ", a new pole appears @xcite on the other side of the continuum ( the edge of which is again controlled by the high fermi velocity along the nodal direction ) .",
    "one then reenters the continuum , and the response rapidly loses intensity and the damped pole - like response is lost above 55 mev .",
    "i now turn to the last dispersion , tb4 .",
    "this is based on a fit to underdoped lsco arpes data @xcite .",
    "the fermi surface in this case is characterized by strong nesting , both in the nodal region , and also the antinodal one . putting the resonance condition at 40",
    "mev yields the same reversed magnon dispersion , silent band effect around @xmath68 ( node - node vector ) , and second mode behavior for @xmath69 that was so prominent for tb3 ( fig .",
    "the one contrast is at higher energies , the incommensurability is much better defined than for the other dispersions due to the strong nesting ( this high energy dispersion follows the steep dispersion along the nodal direction shown in fig .",
    "but for most of the results presented here , i choose to show instead the case where the resonance condition is at 50 mev .",
    "this is interesting for two reasons : ( 1 ) this energy is where the maximum response was seen in lbco @xcite , and ( 2 ) this energy corresponds to the continuum edge at @xmath39 ( and thus where there is a maximum in the real part of the bubble ) .",
    "@xmath9 in this case is adjusted so that it is equal to the inverse of this maximum value .     for tb4 at ( a ) 10 mev ( b ) 30 mev ( c ) 50 mev and ( d ) 100 mev .",
    "the maximum d - wave gap is 30 mev , and @xmath9 ( 0.276 ev ) is chosen to give a resonance at 50 mev .",
    "scale is such that the lowest is 0 and the highest is ( a ) 1.4 ( b ) 10.6 ( c ) 27.1 and ( d ) 5.5,width=326 ]     translated image ( solid line ) for ( a ) @xmath70 and ( b ) @xmath71 .",
    "lower left corner is at @xmath72 and upper right at @xmath39.,width=326 ]     versus energy and @xmath73 for ( a ) tb1 ( b ) tb2 ( c ) tb3 and ( d ) tb4 .",
    "same conditions as figs .",
    "the intensity is on a logarithmic grid ranging from 0.1 to 100.,width=326 ]     versus energy and @xmath73 for tb4 for ( a ) superconducting state with resonance at 40 mev ( u=0.332 ev ) and ( b ) pseudogap state with resonance at 50 mev ( u=0.343 ev ) .",
    "the intensity is on a logarithmic grid ranging from 0.1 to 100.,width=326 ]    the results are shown in fig .",
    "8 and fig .  10d . in this case ( as well as",
    "when the resonance is at 40 mev ) , the incommensurate response below resonance is much cleaner than for the other dispersions , with very clear maxima along the @xmath55 direction once the continuum edge energy along this direction is exceeded , with @xmath74 at the lowest energies being given by the condition @xmath75 .",
    "one again sees a clear rotation of the pattern by 45 degrees as one crosses through the commensurate resonance energy , but as with tb2 , the response above resonance has an overall diamond shape . unlike the other dispersions , a well defined incommensurate pattern with maxima along the diagonal direction persists to much higher energies , remaining clearly visible up to 140 mev . above this energy ,",
    "the response is less well defined , but still incommensurate .",
    "note the very well defined incommensurability at 100 mev , which is similar to that of the real part of the bubble ( indicating pole - like behavior ) .",
    "the interesting point about this dispersion , as commented above , is that the high energy response typically follows the outer branch of the dispersive response corresponding to scattering processes along the nodal direction ( dashed line in fig .",
    "this nodal velocity is set by the renormalized fermi velocity along the node , which in rvb type models is proportional to the superexchange , @xmath16 .",
    "this velocity is also essentially constant with doping @xcite , suggesting a connection between the universal behavior observed in both arpes and ins data .    for this dispersion",
    ", calculations have also been performed in the pseudogap approximation .",
    "this is shown in fig .  11b , and as can be seen , are virtually identical to the superconducting results shown in fig .",
    "this indicates that the d - wave phasing relation is not necessary to obtain the results shown in this paper ( just an energy gap - though we again note that for the s - wave superconducting case , there is no resonance effect ) . in this connection ,",
    "most of the dramatic findings in ins data are in the underdoped regime where a pseudogap persists to very high temperatures .     versus energy and @xmath73 for tb4 for ( a ) superconducting state and ( b ) normal state .",
    "u is 0.276 ev .",
    "the intensity is on a logarithmic grid ranging from 0.02 to 20.,width=326 ]     for tb4 in the normal state at ( a ) 10 mev ( b ) 30 mev ( c ) 50 mev and ( d ) 100 mev .",
    "@xmath9 is 0.276 ev .",
    "scale is such that the lowest is 0 and the highest is ( a ) 4.8 ( b ) 6.8 ( c ) 7.2 and ( d ) 3.8,width=326 ]    it is also amusing to present results for this dispersion when the energy gap is set to zero .",
    "this is shown in fig .",
    "12b for the same @xmath9 as used in the superconducting case in fig .",
    "the response is always incommensurate , and is bond oriented for @xmath76 and diagonal oriented for @xmath77 ( fig .",
    "@xmath78 is the energy where the constant energy contour for the dispersion switches from being hole - like to electron - like .",
    "besides the lack of a commensurate resonance response , and a spin gap due to the energy gap , there are interesting similarities with the superconducting results .",
    "in conclusion , rpa calculations show a remarkably rich behavior , in particular in the evolution of the momentum response as a function of energy .",
    "this behavior becomes even richer in the superconducting and pseudogap phases due to the strong momentum anisotropy of the particle - hole continuum edge due to the anisotropy of the energy gap .",
    "there is a striking similarity of many of these findings to experimental ins data in lsco , ybco , and bi2212 - in particular the reversed magnon behavior of the resonance mode , and the finding for several dispersions of a rotation by 45 degrees of the incommensurate response when passing through the resonance energy , which argue for universality in the magnetic response as has been commented on in regards to experimental ins data .    on the other hand ,",
    "there are some differences that need to be kept in mind . for instance",
    ", the incommensurate response above resonance is generally more variable in the calculations than indicated by experiment .",
    "the fact that this is apparent as well in calculations where the bare greens functions are replaced by experimental greens functions @xcite indicates that this is a general issue .",
    "the author speculates that the rpa calculations and alternate ones based on coupled spin ladders are different limits of a more complete theory that properly includes the full quantum mechanical nature of both the spin and charge degrees of freedom .",
    "the development of such a theory should help shed more light on the relation of the magnetic fluctuation spectrum and the existence of d - wave superconductivity .",
    "i would like to thank andrey chubukov , steve hayden , and john tranquada for discussions , and a special thanks to herb mook for his encouragement to initiate this project back in 1999 .",
    "the work was supported by the u. s. dept . of energy , office of science , under contract",
    "de - ac02 - 06ch11357 .",
    "a. kaminski , h. m. fretwell , m. r. norman , m. randeria , s. rosenkranz , u. chatterjee , j. c. campuzano , j. mesot , t. sato , t. takahashi , t. terashima , m. takano , k. kadowaki , z. z. li and h. raffy , phys .",
    "b * 71 * , 014517 ( 2005 ) .",
    "x. j. zhou , t. yoshida , d .- h .",
    "lee , w. l. yang , v. brouet , f. zhou , w. x. ti , j. w. xiong , z. x. zhao , t. sasagawa , t. kakeshita , h. eisaki , s. uchida , a. fujimori , z. hussain and z .- x .",
    "shen , phys .",
    ". lett . * 92 * , 187001 ( 2004 ) .",
    "x. j. zhou , t. yoshida , a. lanzara , p. v. bogdanov , s. a. kellar , k. m. shen , w. l. yang , f. ronning , t. sasagawa , t. kakeshita , t. noda , h. eisaki , s. uchida , c. t. lin , f. zhou , j. w. xiong , w. x. ti , z. x. zhao , a. fujimori , z. hussain and z .- x .",
    "shen , nature ( london ) * 423 * , 398 ( 2003 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> linear response theory , commonly known as the random phase approximation ( rpa ) , predicts a rich magnetic excitation spectrum for d - wave superconductors . </S>",
    "<S> many of the features predicted by such calculations appear to be reflected in inelastic neutron scattering data of the cuprates . in this article </S>",
    "<S> , i will present results from rpa calculations whose input is based on angle resolved photoemission data , and discuss possible relevance to inelastic neutron scattering data of la@xmath0sr@xmath1cuo@xmath2 ( lsco ) , yba@xmath3cu@xmath4o@xmath5 ( ybco ) , and bi@xmath3sr@xmath3cacu@xmath3o@xmath6 ( bi2212 ) in their superconducting and non - superconducting phases . in particular , the question of the universality of the magnetic excitation spectrum will be addressed . </S>"
  ]
}