{
  "article_text": [
    "double well system is a paradigm model used to demonstrate marvellous quantum tunnelling property , e.g. , cold atoms in optical lattice and magnetic spins in external magnetic field @xcite .",
    "the realization of dilute bose degenerate gas in 1995 provides a new opportunity to revisit the old topics @xcite .",
    "it should be addressed here , the tunnelling of bose - einstein condensates ( becs ) system differs from the traditional quantum tunnelling mentioned above in two essential aspects : system scale is macroscopic ( around 10@xmath0 ) , and more importantly it is a many - body system where the interaction between atoms plays an important role .",
    "a natural question arises that how the interaction between condensed atoms affect the quantum dynamics in double well system .",
    "this problem attracts much theoretical attention in past few years @xcite and recent realization of the becs in optical double well trap bring new research surge @xcite .    among many findings ,",
    "self - trapping is most interesting one selftrap , raghavan , raghavan1,sigmund .",
    "it says , the becs atoms in a symmetric double - well potential may shows highly asymmetric distribution as if most atoms are trapped in one well , even under a repulsive interaction between the degenerate atoms .",
    "recently , this counter - intuition phenomenon has been successfully observed in experiment @xcite .    in this paper , with phase space analysis approach we study this phenomenon thoroughly .",
    "we emphasize the effects of a periodic modulation that is applied on the energy bias of the system .",
    "we find the external periodic field with high or low frequency can effectively modulate the transition parameters of the self - trapping .",
    "moreover , for an intermediate frequency modulation , we find the becs alternate between self - trapping regime and non - self - trapping regime with increasing atomic interaction parameter .",
    "this fact is attributed to chaos in phase space induced by the resonance between the periodic modulation and nonlinear rabi oscillation .",
    "furthermore , we consider the effects of many - body quantum fluctuation on self - trapping and find the quantum fluctuation will dramatically influence the self - trapping phenomenon . especially for an intermediate frequency manipulation ,",
    "the alternate phenomenon does not appear since there are no chaos in full - quantum description .",
    "the paper is organized as follows .",
    "self - trapping effects in two weakly coupled becs is introduced and analyzed with phase space approach in section ii .",
    "section iii discusses periodic modulation of this phenomenon for three cases : high frequency , low frequency and strong resonating region , respectively . after studying the effect of quantum fluctuation in section iv ,",
    "we give the capable observation and application of our findings in section v. the acknowledgment is in the final part .",
    "for two weakly coupled becs , the wave function evolving with time can be described with the superposition of individual wave function in each well .",
    "the spacial variable and the time one of the individual wave function are assumed to be separable . under these approximations",
    ", we can obtain a two - mode schrdinger equation , i.e. , two - mode gross - pitaevskii equation ( gpe ) :    @xmath1    where @xmath2and @xmath3are the probability amplitudes of atoms in two wells respectively .",
    "the hamiltonian is given by@xmath4where @xmath5 is the coupling constant between the two condensates in double - well potential , @xmath6 is the energy bias between the two wells , @xmath7  is the nonlinear parameter describing the interaction biaowu , libinfu , jieliu , jieliu0 . the total probability is conserved and set to be @xmath8 .",
    "our discussion focuses on the symmetric double - well trapped becs system , so @xmath9 .    with @xmath10",
    ", the schrdinger equation can be casted into a classical hamiltonian system by introducing the population difference @xmath11 and the relative phase @xmath12,@xmath13with @xmath14 , @xmath15 are the canonically conjugate variables of the classical hamiltonian system .",
    "self - trapping motion refers to the trajectories whose average population difference is not zero @xmath16 .",
    "this can be well understood in phase space of the classical hamiltonian system ( [ equation3 ] ) .",
    "three kinds of cases will emerge with different parameters , shown in fig.1 .",
    "\\1 ) for the weak interaction , i.e. , @xmath17 , in the phase space , there are two fixed points @xmath18 , @xmath19 at @xmath20 , @xmath21 and @xmath20 , @xmath22 , respectively ( fig.1(a ) ) .",
    "the atoms distribution corresponding to them is in equilibrium .",
    "the trajectories around them correspond to atoms oscillation between the two wells , i.e. , josephson oscillation , and the average of population difference to time is zero , i.e. , @xmath23 .",
    "no self - trapping effect can be found .",
    "\\2 ) for the interaction @xmath24 , two more fixed points appear on the line @xmath25 . among them , @xmath18 , @xmath26 are stable and @xmath27  is unstable ( fig.1(b ) ) .",
    "they are at @xmath28 , @xmath29 , @xmath30 , respectively , where @xmath31 . obviously for fixed points @xmath18 ,",
    "@xmath26 atoms distributions are not in equilibrium .",
    "the average of population difference about the trajectories around them is non - zero , i.e. , @xmath32 .",
    "it indicates atoms self - trapped in one well . because the population difference @xmath14 and the relative phase @xmath15 oscillate around fixed points , we denote it as oscillating phase self - trapping .",
    "\\3 ) with the interaction becoming stronger , i.e. , @xmath33 , new trajectories emerge , for example the trajectory across point @xmath34 ( fig.1(c ) ) . for these trajectories , @xmath14 changes with time in @xmath35 $ ] or in @xmath36 $ ] , relative phase @xmath15 varies monotonously .",
    "obviously @xmath37 , atoms are self - trapped in one well , called running phase self - trapping predicted in the reference @xcite and observed in experiment @xcite .    the above changes on the topological structure of the phase space associates with the change of the profile of the physical energy .",
    "with considering the relative phase being zero or @xmath38 , the energy depending on the population difference @xmath14 can be derived from eq.(3 ) and plotted in the right column of fig.1 for varied parameters . the transition from case 1 ) to case 2 ) corresponds to the bifurcation of the energy profile of @xmath21 : the energy function of single minimum bifurcates into the function of two minimums ; the low limit of the energy profile with @xmath39 is @xmath40 , and the energy of the saddle point @xmath41 is @xmath42 , which is the local maximum of the energy profile with @xmath21 .",
    "the transition from case 2 ) to case 3 ) is characterized by the overlap of the energy regime of the two profiles . in this case",
    "the trajectory originated from @xmath43 can not cross the energy hill peaked by the saddle point .",
    "it will be confined in the low phase plane , corresponding the  running phase ",
    "type self - trapping .    from the above analysis on the energy function",
    "we can obtain a general criteria for the self - trapping trajectories , that is @xmath44 . with it , the transition parameters of self - trapping for the trajectory with arbitrary initial value can be found .",
    "for example , in the situation of recent experiment @xcite @xmath45 , the @xmath46 is the critical point for the transition to the running phase type self - trapping . for the state of initial condition",
    "@xmath43 the transition parameter is @xmath47 in our analysis , agrees with our numerical simulations as shown in fig.2 .",
    "the scaling law near the transition point shows a logarithmic singularity .",
    "generally , we can control the behavior of the system by applying a periodic modulation . for example",
    "tunnelling probability can be controlled through adjusting the modulation parameters for the linear case grossman , gomez , yosuke , duan . in this section",
    ", we will discuss how a periodic modulation affect the nonlinear self - trapping . without losing generality ,",
    "we assume that the modulation is applied on the energy bias with amplitude @xmath48 and frequency @xmath49 , i.e. , @xmath50 .",
    "then the nonlinear gpe still can be mapped into the time dependent hamiltonian ( 3 ) .",
    "we then can investigate the global property of the trajectories with the phase space analysis method as in above section .",
    "differently , in this case , the phase space of the time - dependent hamiltonian ( or poincare section ) is drawn by stroboscopic plotting of the trajectories at the moment of integer multiple times of the modulation period , i.e. , @xmath51 .",
    "we will consider following three typical cases corresponding to different modulation frequency regimes .",
    "when the system is added by a high frequency modulation , the two kinds of self - trapping , i.e. , oscillating or running phase , still exist as shown in fig.3 . here the phase space are stroboscopic plotting of the trajectories at the moment of integer multiple times of the modulation period .",
    "compared with fig.1 , the fixed points are shifted to the leftside .",
    "this is because the phase space depends on the time moment when poincare surface of section is made . for the different time moment",
    ", the topological structure of the poincare section keeps consistent which guarantee the validity of our observation .",
    "moreover , we find that the critical interaction parameter above which the self - trapping occurs changes dramatically with periodic modulation .",
    "fig.4(a ) , taking the trajectory @xmath43 as an example , shows the critical interaction is about 1.531 at @xmath53 .",
    "fig.4(b ) shows phase diagram for the transition to the self - trapping .",
    "it says that the critical values @xmath54 depend on the modulation parameters in the way of the bessel function @xmath55 .",
    "the above observation can be understood from following deduction .",
    "using high frequency approximation , the time - dependent system ( [ equation1 ] ) is equivalent to a stationary one .",
    "let us make the transformation @xmath56 , @xmath57 .",
    "then we can obtain the following schrdinger equation    @xmath58    @xmath59    using formula @xmath60where @xmath61 is the bessel function of nth order , and considering the contribution of those higher order bessel function to the integrals can be neglected @xcite , the effective coupling constant becomes @xmath62 .    immediately",
    ", we can obtain the critical values are @xmath63 for oscillating phase self - trapping and @xmath64 for running phase self - trapping based on the results in section ii .",
    "this result is consistent with the numerical calculation .      for this case",
    ", it is not significant to identify the two kinds of self - trapping .",
    "we suppose initially all particles confined in one well with the relative phase of @xmath66 , i.e. , @xmath67 . then for given parameters we check if the trajectory is self trapped , @xmath68 .",
    "we find that the self - trapping still occurs for some regime of parameters , as shown in fig.5(a ) .",
    "there , we see , above a critical value of interaction which is a function of modulation amplitude and the energy gap , the average population difference jump from a irregular oscillation to a constant ( @xmath69 , self - trapping regime ) .    to see what happened before and after the transition , we plot the phase space of the system with @xmath70 changing slowly , seeing fig.6 . below the critical point ,",
    "i.e. , @xmath71 , the fixed @xmath18 ( where we started from ) moves up smoothly , at a certain @xmath72 , it collides with another fixed point @xmath73 and gives birth to a new trajectory .",
    "above the critical point , i.e. , @xmath74 , the trajectory @xmath18 moves along the line @xmath75 up and down smoothly , having no chance to collide with other fixed point . for the large @xmath76 case , the shift of our trajectory away from the bottom line ( @xmath77 ) is small , so that the time average of the population difference is approximately @xmath78 .    the singularity point @xmath79 where two fixed points collide leading to",
    "the topological change on phase space depends on the modulation amplitude but little on its frequency .",
    "our theoretical deduction gives @xmath80@xcite .",
    "when the modulation frequency is very small , the parameter @xmath6 varies adiabatically with time @xmath81 .",
    "if amplitude @xmath48 does not exceed the critical values , atoms should be self - trapped .",
    "this gives the condition @xmath82 for self - trapping , which is well coincident to the numerical result shown in fig.5(b ) .",
    "below the critical point , the collision between the two fixed points mean occurrence of the instability , which may leads to the irregular oscillation of the average population difference as seen in fig.5(a ) .",
    "for the strong resonating region , the situation is complicated . due to the strong resonance between the nonlinear rabi oscillation and the periodic modulation",
    ", chaos appears as shown in the phase space plotting fig.7 , where the scattered points denote the chaotic trajectories forming chaotic sea@xcite . inside the chaotic sea",
    "there are stable islands corresponding to the self - trapping trajectory .",
    "we find with increasing the interaction parameter , the stable islands appear alternately .",
    "fig.8 describes this alternate with @xmath84 standing for self - trapping and @xmath85 for non - self - trapping when interaction parameter varies continuously .",
    "the mutations are the transition parameters .",
    "analytic expression for the dependence of the transition parameters on the modulation parameters can not be found .",
    "in the above discussions on the self - trapping , our framework is the mean field treatment with assuming that the number of particle is large enough .",
    "however , in practical experiment , the particle number is finite , we want to know how the quantum fluctuation caused by finite number of atoms affects the self - trapping . with this motivation",
    "we investigate following second quantized hamiltonian which is the quantum counterpart of our mean field system ( 1 ) , @xmath86where @xmath6,@xmath76,@xmath5 are energy bias between the two modes , the interaction between atoms and the coupling between the modes , respectively .",
    "@xmath87 , @xmath88 ( @xmath89 , @xmath90 ) are creating ( annihilating ) boson operators .",
    "@xmath91  is the total number of atoms .",
    "its matrix elements are obtained in the representation of fock states @xmath92 .",
    "@xmath93 . corresponding to the mean field @xmath77 our initial state in the full quantum framework is @xmath94 .",
    "we then can solve the corresponding schrdinger equation @xmath95 with runge - kutta method , and trace the time evolution of population difference @xmath96 , where @xmath97 is the amplitude of fock state @xmath98 .",
    "our main results are that , for the cases of high or low frequency modulation , the self - trapping effect can still be observed in full - quantum description , i.e. , with increasing the interaction parameter , the quantum average population will transition from symmetric distribution to asymmetric distribution .",
    "however , different from the mean field case , the transition here is smooth or continuous , no scaling law or singularity is observed . for the case of intermediate modulation , because the quantum effect dramatically suppress the classical chaos , the alternate phenomenon observed in the mean field case vanishes .",
    "what we observe is that a continuous transition to the self - trapping regime with increasing the interaction parameter . in following",
    "we give detailed presentation of our results .    for @xmath99 , with increasing the interaction parameter ,",
    "fig.9 compares the transition to self - trapping in full - quantum treatment with that in mean field framework , by tracing the time evolution of population difference .",
    "it is found that , within mean field framework ( fig.9(a ) ) , there is an abrupt transition to self - trapping characterized by a logarithmic scaling law as mentioned above .",
    "however , for full - quantum calculations ( fig.9(b ) ) the transition become smooth and no scaling law or singularity is found in this case .    for case of @xmath100 , our results are similar . seeing fig.10",
    ", we find the transition to self - trapping regime is abrupt in mean field treatment(fig.10(a ) ) , but is smooth for the full - quantum case ( fig.10(b ) ) .    for the intermediate case of @xmath101 ,",
    "the situation is quite different .",
    "classical chaos shown in the mean field treatment is expected to be suppressed by the quantum fluctuation , alternate phenomenon observed in the mean field case vanishes , as we see in fig.11 . in mean field method ( fig.11(a ) ) , self - trapping effect , @xmath102 , and non - self - trapping effect , @xmath103 appear alternately with increasing the interaction parameter , while , in full - quantum method ( fig.11(b ) ) , a continuous transition to the self - trapping regime is observed , that is , with increasing the interaction parameter , the bec distribution become more and more self - trapped in a well .    from the above analysis , we see in practical experiment to observe the dramatic effects of the quantum fluctuation caused by the finite number of particle , we need choose the parameters in the regime of the occurrence of classical chaos in mean field systems .",
    "we have investigated the periodic modulation effect on the self - trapping of two weakly coupled bose - einstein condensates in a symmetric double - well potential .",
    "analytic expressions for the dependence of the transition parameters on the modulation parameters are derived for high and low frequency modulations .",
    "it is shown that the self - trapping phenomenon can be controlled , saying , the transition parameters can be adjusted effectively by the periodic modulation .",
    "we also study the effects of many - body quantum fluctuation on self - trapping due to finite number of the particle .",
    "we find that the quantum fluctuation make the critical phenomenon hazy for high and low frequency manipulation . for an intermediate frequency ,",
    "the alternative phenomenon does not appear since there are no chaos in full - quantum description .",
    "experimentally , bec in optical double well system can be generated by coherently splitting bec into a double - well potential generated by two laser beams .",
    "the radial separation of the potential wells is controlled by the frequency difference .",
    "the energy offset can be periodically modulated by adjusting the intensity of the two laser beamsmichael , shin .",
    "the second possible physical system can be used to realize our model is the tunnelling between the internal state of bec like @xmath104rb@xcite . there , two internal states are separated by the relatively large hyperfine energy , but in presence of a near - resonant coupling field the states appear to be nearly degenerate .",
    "the energy bias can be adjusted by the detuning of the lasers from resonance .",
    "our theory predicts the periodic modulation on the energy bias will dramatically affect the tunnelling dynamics and the nonlinear self - trapping .",
    "we hope our discussion will stimulate the experiments in the direction .",
    "this work was supported by national natural science foundation of china ( grant no . :",
    "10474008,10445005 ) and by science and technology fund of caep .",
    "we sincerely thank professors biao wu , bing - bing wang , pan - ming fu and shi - gang chen for their valuable discussions .",
    "m. jona - lasinio , et .",
    "91 , 230406(2003 ) g.l.salmond , c.a.holmes and g.j.milburn , phys .",
    "a * 65 * , 033623 ( 2002 ) ; k.w.mahmud , h.perry , and w.p.reinhardt , phys . rev .",
    "a * 71 * 023615 ( 2005 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> with phase space analysis approach , we investigate thoroughly the self - trapping phenomenon for two weakly coupled bose - einstein condensates ( bec ) in a symmetric double - well potential . </S>",
    "<S> we identify two kinds of self - trapping by their different relative phase behavior . with applying a periodic modulation on the energy bias of the system we find the occurrence of the self - trapping </S>",
    "<S> can be controlled , saying , the transition parameters can be adjusted effectively by the periodic modulation . </S>",
    "<S> analytic expressions for the dependence of the transition parameters on the modulation parameters are derived for high and low frequency modulations . for an intermediate frequency modulation </S>",
    "<S> , we find the resonance between the periodic modulation and nonlinear rabi oscillation dramatically affects the tunnelling dynamics and demonstrate many novel phenomena </S>",
    "<S> . finally , we study the effects of many - body quantum fluctuation on self - trapping and discuss the possible experimental realization of the model . </S>"
  ]
}