{
  "article_text": [
    "stochastic resonance ( sr ) @xcite is the best - known example of the constructive role of noise .",
    "the sr is a phenomenon in which the response of a  system is optimized by the presence of a specific level of noise .",
    "it has been detected in so many seemingly different systems that it has been claimed to be `` an inherent property of rate - modulated series of events '' @xcite .",
    "it has been recently suggested that the functioning of important natural devices , e.g. , communication and information processing in neural systems or subthreshold signal detection in biological receptors , rely on phase synchronization rather than stochastic resonance @xcite , but this does not exclude the possibility that some natural devices may rely on the sr or that effective artificial detectors that use this feature may be constructed and operated .",
    "it has been observed that the sr gets enhanced if an array of similar nonlinear elements collectively responds to the same signal .",
    "this phenomenon has been termed the array enhanced stochastic resonance ( aesr ) .",
    "it was first observed in chains of nonlinear oscillators @xcite and later , mostly without explicitly using the term aesr , in arrays of fritzhugh - nagumo model neurons @xcite , in ion channels @xcite , in ensembles of nondynamical elements with internal noise independent on the incoming signal or modulated by it @xcite , in multilevel threshold systems @xcite , in a globally coupled network of hodgkin - huxley model neurons @xcite , and , recently , in arrays of josephson junctions @xcite .",
    "the experimental work on detecting the sr in the mammalian brain tissue @xcite should also be mentioned as a whole _ array _ of neurons was stimulated .",
    "the accumulated knowledge of systems exhibiting the aesr is now considerable , but there are still important issues that need to be clarified .",
    "we want to address two such points in the present paper .",
    "first , in nearly all papers mentioned above , the specific dynamics  the `` internal '' dynamics of systems such as nonlinear oscillators or model neurons , or dynamical coupling between various elements  played an important role .",
    "it is thus not entirely clear what features of the aesr are generic , and what depends on the details of interactions .",
    "we will discuss the aesr in arrays of nondynamical threshold elements .",
    "such elements , first introduced in ref .",
    "@xcite and later discussed in refs .",
    "@xcite , are known to display the sr when subjected to a  periodic subthreshold signal with an additive noise .",
    "the aesr , if indeed present in such an array , is not obscured by any effects resulting from a specific dynamical model , and only its generic features should show up . the interesting research presented in ref .",
    "@xcite already considered the aesr in ensembles of nondynamical elements , but we want to re - examine this problem because of the special treatment of noises in ref .  @xcite  see a discussion below .",
    "second , the role of spatial correlations between the noises has been almost neglected in the existing research on the aesr .",
    "the noises discussed were local and uncorrelated in refs .",
    "@xcite , global in ref .",
    "@xcite , and in the form of a mixture of uncorrelated local and global noises in refs .",
    "@xcite . as correlations between various noises can result in very interesting physical phenomena , ranging from drastic changes in activation rates @xcite , through current reversal in brownian ratchets @xcite , to an effective nullifying one of the noises @xcite , and many others , it is interesting to examine their impact on the aesr .",
    "the authors of ref .",
    "@xcite claimed that spatial correlations between the noises weakened the response of an array of neurons , but the spatial correlations discussed there were induced by the presence of a global noise . we will show that spatial correlations between _ local _ noises can have a constructive effect .",
    "this paper is organized as follows : in section  ii we present numerical results for arrays of uncoupled threshold elements . in section",
    "iii we discuss the role of spatial correlations between the noises in a chain of nonlinear oscillators .",
    "concluding remarks are given in section  iv .",
    "a single threshold device fires whenever the signal on its input exceeds the threshold . here",
    "we consider an array of @xmath0 such devices , acting in parallel in response to a common signal ; the average ( or integrated ) output of all individual devices is taken as the output of the whole array :    [ aesr : array ] @xmath1    here @xmath2 is the frequency of the signal ( we take @xmath3 ) , @xmath4 is the initial phase , and @xmath5 is the amplitude ; we take @xmath6 to make the signal subthreshold .",
    "@xmath7 is the output of the array and @xmath8 are the noises .",
    "we take them to be zero - mean gaussian white noises ( gwns ) , possibly spatially correlated :    @xmath9    the matrix @xmath10 $ ] represents spatial correlations of the noises",
    ". it must be symmetric and positively definite .",
    "@xmath11 is a parameter controlling the intensity of the noises .",
    "this system is similar to , but different from that discussed in the first part of ref .",
    "@xcite , where the local noise was added to the output of each element _ after _ the element had decided whether to fire in a response to the signal contaminated by a global noise .",
    "thus , the output of a single element was not binary . rather than that , it could assume , in principle , any value , positive or negative . moreover , as all elements received identical inputs , they all fired or not fired in unison . after an appropriate scaling , the collective output of the whole array was equivalent to a binary series contaminated by a gwn . the local noises in ref .",
    "@xcite were , by assumption , spatially uncorrelated . in our approach",
    ", the internal noise is added to the signal at each site _ before _ the threshold elements make their decisions whether to fire or not .",
    "the internal noise represents fluctuations in the connections or environmentally induced random perturbations , but the output of every threshold element remains binary .    .",
    "]    we also start with uncorrelated , or local , noises , @xmath12 .",
    "we calculate the signal and the noises with a time step @xmath13 and calculate the output of the nondynamical system .",
    "we use marsaglia algorithm @xcite to generate the gwns ; we use the famous mersenne twister @xcite as the underlying uniform generator . for each array",
    ", we collect a time series of 4096 elements , calculate its power spectrum and calculate the signal - to - noise ratio ( snr ) :    @xmath14    for each @xmath0 and @xmath15 we average the results over 512 realizations of the noises and initial phases of the signal .",
    "final results are presented in fig .",
    "[ aesr : fig - aesr ] and their interpretation is clear : the snr increases significantly for all noise strengths as the array size doubles .",
    "we can see that the aesr is not a result of any specific dynamics but is present also in arrays of uncoupled elements .",
    "this , together with previous results for coupled systems , shows that the aesr is a generic feature of arrays of elements that individually display the sr .",
    "note that we have observed the aesr for a _ local _ noise . if the noise were _ global _",
    ", @xmath16 ( or @xmath17 ) , no array enhancement would be possible .",
    "indeed , for a global noise , each element of the array receives identical input , and the collective output of the whole array is identical with that of a single element .",
    "the array does not display the aesr , but only the conventional sr .",
    "this simple argument shows that it is the differences between the noises at different sites that cause the aesr .",
    "this observation leads to the question of the role of spatial correlation between the noises . qualitatively speaking , noises with large correlations are `` nearly identical '' and",
    "the enhancement of the sr should be small .",
    "the enhancement of the sr should increase as the correlations decrease .",
    "we will now see that this is indeed the case .",
    "let @xmath18 be the cholesky decomposition @xcite of the correlation matrix @xmath19 and let @xmath20 be a vector of spatially uncorrelated , zero mean gwns , @xmath21",
    ". then @xmath22 has correlations of the form . in the following",
    ", we will consider only correlations between the nearest neighbors in the array of threshold elements . specifically ,",
    "@xmath23    where @xmath24 in order to keep the matrix @xmath19 positively definite . for each specific value of @xmath15 , the cholesky decomposition needs to be performed only once ; later , during the simulation , vectors of independent gaussian variables are generated and multiplied by the cholesky factor @xmath25 . since for a tridiagonal correlation matrix @xmath19 ,",
    "the cholesky factor has only two non - zero elements per row , generating gwns with nearest - neighbor correlations is only twice as computationally expensive as generating independent gwns , or even less than that given the fact that generating the independent gaussian variables is the most computationally intensive part of the procedure .",
    "we now simulate the system in the manner described above for various values of @xmath15 .",
    "results for an array of @xmath26 elements are plotted in fig .",
    "[ aesr : fig - near ] .",
    "we can see that noises with positive spatial correlations lead to a smaller enhancement of sr than the independent noises . on the other hand ,",
    "the snr increases as @xmath15 becomes negative and approaches @xmath27 .",
    "the effect of negative correlations ( anticorrelations ) becomes larger as the noise strength increases .",
    "similar results have been observed for arrays of different lengths .    ,",
    "@xmath28 , @xmath29 , @xmath30 , and @xmath31 , respectively .",
    "the array consists of 128 threshold devices . ]     and the strength @xmath11 of the additional noise applied to the array .",
    "the additional noise has spatial correlations in the form with @xmath32 , and the array size @xmath33 . ]",
    "clean signals are rare in nature .",
    "suppose that the incoming signal is contaminated by a noise that can not be controlled . to improve detection of this signal , we pass it through an array of threshold elements and we apply additional noise that we can control to each of the elements .",
    "the external noise acts here as a global noise ; the additional ( local ) noise is not correlated to the global noise .",
    "the above discussion suggests that the additional noise should have negative spatial correlations . if the global noise is weak ( below the peak of the ordinary sr ) , the additional anticorrelated noise can significantly enhance the snr , fig .",
    "[ aesr : fig - addnoise ] .",
    "however , if the global noise is large , the enhancement provided by the array is only marginal .",
    "this is similar to the result reported in ref .",
    "@xcite , where the presence of a  strong global noise markedly deteriorated the performance of the system studied .",
    "it is important to understand the `` microscopic '' mechanism responsible for the aesr . in the conventional sr ,",
    "the threshold element may occasionally misfire or miss some peaks of the signal , cf .",
    "[ aesr : fig - panels]a .",
    "also the shape of the incoming signal is not resolved by the outgoing binary signal . when an array of such elements acts in parallel , if one of the elements makes a mistake ( fires when the signal is low or fails to fire when the signal is strong ) , other elements that are not positively correlated with it are not likely to repeat the mistake ( figs .",
    "[ aesr : fig - panels]b and  c ) .",
    "this effect is even stronger when the other elements are negatively correlated with the one that makes the mistake : negative correlations between noises at different sites tend to correct the mistakes , while positive correlations tend to repeat them . as a result , the shape of the incoming signal is resolved much better .",
    "this does not lead to a visible increase in the height of the signal peak in the power spectrum , but it does lead to a significant decrease of the noise background , fig .",
    "[ aesr : fig - panels ] , bottom row .",
    "thus , lowering of the flat noise background is primarily responsible for the increase in the snr .        on a more formal level ,",
    "let @xmath34 be the probability that a single element fires .",
    "this probability depends on the current phase of the incoming signal , on the signal s amplitude , and on the noise level .",
    "if exactly @xmath35 out of @xmath0 elements fire , the array s output equals @xmath36 .",
    "if the noises at different sites are mutually independent ( uncorrelated ) , the probability of such an event is given by the binomial distribution :    [ aesr : binomial ] @xmath37    in an array twice as large with other parameters the same , exactly @xmath38 elements should fire to produce the same output .",
    "the probability of this event is    @xmath39    the distributions have the same expectation values @xmath40 , but for all values of @xmath41 the distribution is narrower than the distribution .",
    "more importantly , the distribution , corresponding to the larger array , allows for a  more dense output , with values @xmath42 being more probable than @xmath43 etc .",
    "consequently , in larger arrays , wildly `` wrong '' outputs are less probable .",
    "this leads to lowering of the noise background and to an increase of the snr .",
    "if the noises are spatially correlated , the probability that exactly @xmath35 elements fire is no longer given by the binomial distribution .",
    "we have not been able to derive an exact formula for this probability , but the general mechanism of the snr increase with the array size appears to be similar to that for the uncorrelated noises .",
    "note that for the case presented in fig .",
    "[ aesr : fig - panels ] , introducing the maximal negative correlations between the nearest neighbors lowers the background by a factor of the order of  2 , increasing the snr by @xmath44  db , or about 10% of the total .",
    "in order to verify whether similar effects are present in coupled systems , we consider the same system that was discussed in ref .",
    "@xcite where the aesr was first observed .",
    "namely , we consider a chain of overdamped , coupled , nonlinear ( double  well ) oscillators    @xmath45    where @xmath46 , @xmath47 , @xmath48 ( these are the values used in ref .",
    "@xcite ) , @xmath3 , @xmath4 is the initial phase of the signal , and @xmath49 are gwns , possibly spatially correlated according to .",
    "if the system responds to the external periodic stimulation , the central oscillator switches between the two wells in synchrony with the stimulation .",
    "we show results for the `` extreme '' cases of a  global noise , a local ( uncorrelated ) noise , and noises maximally correlated and anticorrelated between the nearest neighbors .",
    "the noises are generated by the algorithm presented in the preceding section .",
    "we choose a chain of a modest length of @xmath50 , integrate the equations numerically using the heun scheme @xcite with a time step @xmath51 and analyze the behavior of the central oscillator .",
    "we filter the analog time series to generate the time series of @xmath52 , reflecting which well the oscillator is in . from the power spectrum of the binary time",
    "series we calculate the snr and average over 64 realizations of the noises and the initial phases of the signal .",
    "results are presented in fig .",
    "[ aesr : fig - coupled ] .    as we can see , for low noises the snr curves display rather wild oscillations , but for larger noises the effect is much the same as for the nondynamical system discussed above : as the correlations decrease , the snr maximum shifts towards higher noise levels .",
    "the maximal value , as well as values for large noise levels , are the largest for the noise maximally anticorrelated between the nearest oscillators and the smallest for the global noise .",
    "this effect grows as the coupling strength increases .",
    "a more thorough analysis shows that for large noise intensities , and increase in the snr is again achieved mainly by lowering the noise background .",
    "note that in case of the global noise , the response practically does not change with the coupling strength . in this case , all the oscillators receive identical inputs and there is no aesr , but only the ordinary sr , exactly as in the nondynamical system .    to understand the mechanism that is responsible for the aesr in this case ,",
    "observe that the oscillators exchange energy via the elastic coupling .",
    "we calculate the change in the elastic energy between two neighboring oscillators that occurs during a time interval @xmath53 , @xmath54 , where @xmath55 . to the lowest order in @xmath56 , @xmath57 , where @xmath58 has contributions from the elastic interactions , the nonlinear part of the potential , the external signal , and the noise . if either the coupling constant @xmath59 is large , or the oscillator happens to be in the vicinity of the barrier between the wells , the nonlinear part may be neglected .",
    "straightforward calculations show that the noises contribute to the expectation value @xmath60 a term equal to @xmath61 .",
    "we can see that noises with negative correlations maximize this contribution : noises with negative correlations tend to pull the neighboring oscillators in the opposite directions , thus maximizing the energy transfer between the oscillators and providing one of the oscillators with the extra energy needed to cross the barrier .",
    "this simple argument explains why the aesr grows when the coupling strength increases , why the aesr is larger for anticorrelated noises , and why the system with a  global noise , corresponding to @xmath62 , does not display the aesr .",
    "note that if the coupling were repulsive , the situation would be the opposite .",
    "the effects that the correlations have on the spatiotemporal synchronization of the system will be discussed separately .",
    "we have discussed the aesr in arrays of nondynamical threshold elements . we have not observed any saturation of the snr curves that was reported previously in ref .",
    "however , the input signal in that reference was aperiodic and the output snr is not a natural measure for such signals @xcite . this problem has been already discussed  @xcite .",
    "we have shown in the present paper that for arrays of nondynamical elements , noises with negative spatial correlations lead to an enhancement of the aesr . in case of positive spatial correlations",
    "the aesr is weaker than for the independent noises , and arrays with a global noise do not display the aesr , but only the ordinary sr .",
    "this happens because detectors with negative correlations tend to correct each other s mistakes , while positively correlated detectors tend to repeat the mistakes . as a result",
    ", negatively correlated detectors better resolve the shape of the incoming signal .",
    "the mechanism of enhancing the snr relies on lowering the noise background , not on elevating the signal peak .",
    "note that we have analyzed these facts for spatial correlations between the nearest neighbors only .",
    "we expect that noises with long - ranging negative correlations would resolve the shape of the incoming signal even better ; this point will be discussed elsewhere",
    ". it should be noted , though , that long - ranging correlations are more costly to generate .",
    "these results are , superficially , in disagreement with those of ref .",
    "@xcite , where it has been claimed that spatial correlations between the noises diminished the positive effect of passing the signal through an array of model neurons .",
    "this discrepancy is easily solved : in ref .",
    "@xcite , each neuron was subjected to a superposition of a subthreshold periodic signal , a local gwn noise , and a global orstein - uhlenbeck noise .",
    "the local noises were mutually uncorrelated and the spatial correlations resulted solely from the presence of the global noise .",
    "it was the strong global noise that was responsible for the deterioration of the output signal .",
    "we have observed a  similar effect  see fig .",
    "[ aesr : fig - addnoise ] above and the subsequent discussion .",
    "the beneficial effects of negative spatial correlations reported here result from the correlations between the local noises .",
    "our results suggest that from a technological point of view , not only the additive noises should be incorporated into the design of multi - component signal - detection systems , as was already suggested in ref .",
    "@xcite , but also that these noises should have , if possible , negative spatial correlations to further improve the system s ability to detect weak signals , even with a weak global noise present .",
    "we have also shown that spatial correlations of the noise act similarly in the aesr in a coupled system .",
    "while we have discussed this for the specific system only , we have shown that the aesr is enhanced by noises with negative spatial correlations due to the nature of the attracting harmonic interactions between the individual oscillators , regardless of the properties of the nonlinear part , provided the nonlinear part admits the conventional sr . for such interactions , positive spatial correlations of the noise reduce the aesr and a global noise eliminates it altogether , leaving only the ordinary sr , just like in the case of the aesr in arrays of nondynamical elements . as harmonic interactions between different particles are ubiquitous in many physical models , we expect similar phenomena to happen in a variety of situations .",
    "this analysis has also some interesting consequences for the interpretation of experimental results with interacting agents ( particles , oscillators , detectors etc . ) and a global noise , like those reported in ref .",
    "@xcite : even though one can not examine a single agent and has to excite a group of interacting ones , with only a global noise added to the signal , the snr response of the whole array is the same as that of a single agent",
    ".    previous research on systems that display the aesr and our present results let us conclude that the following features appear not to depend on the details of the dynamics : ( i ) for periodic subthreshold inputs , the snr is systematically enhanced as the size of the array grows ; ( ii ) negative spatial correlations between the local noises provide further enhancement of the snr ; ( iii ) the snr enhancement is mainly due to lowering the noise background , not due to increasing the signal peaks ; ( iv ) positive spatial correlations reduce the enhancement ; in particular , a purely global noise eliminates the array enhancement altogether .",
    "the detailed shape of the snr curves , their slope , locations of the maxima , depend on particulars of the system studied and on properties of the input signals .",
    "gun sang jeon , hyun jin kim , m. y. choi , beom jun kim , and p. minnhagen , phys .",
    "b * 65 * , 184510 , ( 2002 ) ; gun sang jeon , jong soo lim , hyun jin kim , and m. y. choi , phys .",
    "b * 66 * , 024511 ( 2002 ) ; gun sang jeon and m. y. choi , phys .",
    "b * 66 * , 064514 ( 2002 ) .        k. wiesenfeld and f. moss , nature ( london ) * 373 * , 33 ( 1995 ) ; s. m. bezrukov and i. voydanoy , nature ( london ) * 385 * , 319 ( 1997 ) ; s. m. bezrukov and i. voydanoy , nature ( london ) * 386 * , 738 ( 1997 ) ; f. chapeau  blondeau and x. godivier , phys",
    "e * 55 * , 1478 ( 1997 ) ; j. m. g. vilar , g. gomila , and j. m. rubi , phys .",
    "lett . * 81 * , 14 ( 1998 ) .",
    "g. marsaglia and t. a. bray , siam review * 6 * , 260 ( 1964 ) ; a. j. kinderman and j. g. ramage , j. amer .",
    "71 * , 893 ( 1976 ) ; r. wieczorkowski and r. zieliski , _ komputerowe generatory liczb losowych _ ( wnt , warszawa , 1997 ) ( in polish ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we discuss the role of spatial correlations of the noise in the array enhanced stochastic resonance . </S>",
    "<S> we show numerically that the noises with negative correlations between different sites lead to significantly larger values of the signal - to - noise ratio than the uncorrelated noises or noises with positive correlations . </S>",
    "<S> if the noise is global , the system displays only the conventional stochastic resonance , without any array enhancement . </S>"
  ]
}