{
  "article_text": [
    "the context of this research is a large - scale dutch - flemish project  corpus gesproken nederlands \" ( corpus spoken dutch , cgn ) in which a 10 million word spoken corpus is collected and linguistically annotated .",
    "one of the annotation layers is a representation of the pronunciation of the recorded speech ( the phonemic representation ) . as available speech recognition technology is not yet up to generating this annotation automatically , it has to be produced from the ( manually transcribed ) orthographic transcription .",
    "the task is complicated by the fact that these pronunciation representations should reflect either flemish ( the variant of dutch spoken in the north of belgium ) or dutch pronunciation , depending on the origin of different parts of the corpus .    to generate the phonemic representations , we need accurate grapheme - to - phoneme conversion ( the part of speech synthesis which converts spelling into phonemic representations ) .",
    "it can be described as a function mapping the spelling of words to their phonetic symbols .",
    "since the spelling of a word is ambiguous regarding its pronunciation , what is a correct phonemic transcription is contextually determined .",
    "one of the possibilities to tackle the problem is to develop a system that captures the linguistic knowledge of a given language in a set of rules with the disadvantage that hand crafting linguistic rules is a rather difficult and time consuming task .",
    "moreover , this task has to be restarted every time a grapheme - to - phoneme convertor is developed for a new language",
    ". examples of knowledge - rich expert systems are those of allen ( 1987 ) and of divay and vitale ( 1997 ) .",
    "manual encoding of linguistic information , however , is being challenged by data - driven methods since the extraction of linguistic knowledge from a sample text corpus can be a powerful method for overcoming the linguistic knowledge acquisition bottleneck .",
    "different approaches have already been used , such as the use of learning algorithms to pronounce unknown words by analogy to familiar lexical items ( dedina & nusbaum , 1991 ) , decision - tree learning ( dietterich , 1997 ) , a neural network or connectionist approach ( sejnowski & rosenberg , 1987 ) or memory - based learning ( daelemans & van den bosch , 1996 ) .",
    "data - driven approaches can yield comparable ( and sometimes even more accurate ) results than the rule - based approach .    in this paper , we are concerned with two questions .",
    "first , we investigate the level of accuracy that can be obtained using various machine learning techniques trained on two available lexical databases containing examples of the pronunciation of flemish and dutch .",
    "we examine whether one variant of dutch can add valuable information to the prediction of the other in cascaded or stacked classifiers .",
    "different individual classifiers were combined in order to obtain an improved estimator . in the machine learning literature , this approach is called ensemble , stacked or combined classifiers ( dietterich , 1997 ) .",
    "the underlying idea is that , when the errors committed by the individual classifiers are uncorrelated to a sufficient degree and their error rate is low enough , the resulting combined classifier will perform better . this approach , while common in the machine learning literature , has only recently been introduced in natural language processing research ( e.g. , van halteren , zavrel , and daelemans ( 1998 ) for word class disambiguation ) . in the research presented here , we discuss the combination of different classifiers trained on the same or slightly different tasks .",
    "this contrasts with other ensemble methods which combine subsets of the training data ( as in bagging ) or which combine multiple versions of the training data in which previously misclassified examples get more weight ( as in boosting ) . in this paper",
    ", we empirically examine whether these combined classifiers result in substantial accuracy improvements in learning _",
    "grapheme - to - phoneme conversion_. our second research question concerns the use of rule induction as a method to model the systematicity implicit in the differences between flemish and dutch pronunciation .",
    "the training data for our experiments consists of two lexical databases representing dutch and flemish . for dutch ,",
    "celex ( release 2 ) was used and for flemish fonilex ( version 1.0b ) .",
    "the celex database contains frequency information ( based on the inl corpus ) , and phonological , morphological , and syntactic lexical information for more than 384,000 word forms , and uses the disc representation as encoding scheme for word pronunciation .",
    "fonilex is a list of more than 200,000 word forms together with their flemish pronunciation . for each word form ,",
    "an abstract lexical representation is given , together with the concrete pronunciation of that word form in three speech styles : highly formal speech , sloppy speech and `` normal '' speech ( which is an intermediate level ) . a set of phonological rewrite rules was used to deduce these concrete speech styles from the abstract phonological form .",
    "the initial phonological transcription was obtained by a grapheme - to - phoneme converter and was afterwards corrected by hand .",
    "fonilex uses yapa ( comparable to disc ) as encoding scheme .",
    "the fonilex entries also contain a reference to the celex entries , since celex served as basis for the list of word forms in fonilex .",
    "the word forms in celex with a frequency of 1 and higher are included in fonilex and from the list with frequency 0 ( words not attested in a reference corpus ) , only the monomorphematic words were selected .    in the following section ,",
    "we first explain our experimental setup , describing the data sets being used in the different experiments .",
    "an overview of the experiments is also provided . in section 3",
    ", we introduce the experimental methods and we go on to report the overall results of the experiments .",
    "section 4 shows that the use of machine learning techniques , and especially the use of rule induction techniques , leads to an increased insight into the linguistic regularities determining the variation between the two pronunciation variants . in a final section",
    "we conclude with a summary of the most important observations .",
    "the training data for the text - to - pronunciation experiments are two corpora , representing the northern dutch and flemish variants .",
    "the data set we used consists of all fonilex entries with omission of the double entries . in case of double word forms with different possible transcriptions ,",
    "all different transcriptions were taken , as in the word `` caravan '' , which can be phonemically represented as // or as //.",
    "these double transcriptions only appear in fonilex , which explains why the text - to - pronunciation task for flemish is more difficult .",
    "also words the phonemic transcription of which is longer than the orthography and for which no compound phonemes are provided , are omitted , e.g. `` btje '' ( eng . :",
    "`` little b'')(phonemically : // ) .",
    "disc is used as phonemic encoding scheme .",
    "all disc phonemes are included and new phonemes are created for the phonemic symbols which only occur in the fonilex data base .    before passing the data through the machine learning program , alignment ( daelemans & van den bosch , 1996 ) is performed for the graphemic and phonemic representations of celex and for those of fonilex , since the phonemic representation and the spelling of a word often differ in length .",
    "therefore , the phonemic symbols are aligned with the graphemes of the written word form . in case",
    "the phonemic transcription is shorter than the spelling , null phonemes ( /-/ )",
    "are used to fill the gaps . in the example `` aalmoezenier '' ( eng .",
    ": `` chaplain '' ) this results in the following alignment :    0.15 in    .the use of phonetic null insertion in the word `` aalmoezenier '' [ cols=\"<,<,<,<,<,<,<,<,<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     these rules , describing the differences between dutch and flemish consonants and vowels also make linguistic sense .",
    "linguistic literature , such as ( booij , 1995 ) indicates tendencies such as voicing and devoicing on the consonant level and the confusion of tense and lax vowels as important differences between dutch and flemish .",
    "the same discrepancies are found in the transcriptions made by flemish subjects in the dutch transcription experiments described in gillis ( 1999 ) .",
    "the development of accurate and understandable annotation tools is of prime importance in current natural language processing research , which is based to a large extent on the development of reliable corpora .",
    "we discussed the task of phonemic annotation in such a large - scale corpus development project .",
    "we were able to show that for this text - to - pronunciation task , machine learning techniques provide an excellent approach to bootstrapping the annotation and modeling the linguistic knowledge involved .",
    "we do not know of any approach based on hand - crafting with similar or better accuracy for grapheme - to - phoneme conversion for dutch .",
    "we were both interested in optimal accuracy and in obtaining increased insight into the linguistic regularities involved .",
    "we have empirically examined whether combination of different systems ( in this case classifiers trained on different variants of dutch ) enables us to raise the performance ceiling which can be observed when using data driven systems .",
    "a comparison of the results of training single classifiers and the use of a meta - classifier indeed indicates a significant decrease in error of 31% dutch and 38% for flemish .",
    "going one step further , namely combining the combination classifiers results in an additional error decrease of 5% for both flemish and dutch .",
    "the use of rule induction techniques to predict one variant on the basis of the phonemic transcription of the other variant , on the other hand , generates more generalisation errors .",
    "however , this rule induction process leads to an increased insight into the systematic differences between both variants of dutch .    in the text - to - pronunciation task , described in this study , disambiguation in context",
    "is required , which is also the case for other problems in language processing , such as tagging and chunking .",
    "therefore , we plan to explore whether combining classifiers and combining combined classifiers can lead to accuracy boosts for these other nlp problems as well .",
    "we will also investigate other methods that have proved to be promising combination methods for our task ( e.g. naive bayes ) .",
    "a possible limitation of the current approach may be that different tasks can only be combined when they are very similar ( in this case pronunciation prediction of two related dialects ) , a situation which may be rare .",
    "this research is partially supported by the `` linguaduct '' project ( fwo flanders , g.0157.97 ) , and the project `` spoken dutch corpus ( cgn ) '' ( dutch organization for scientific research nwo and the flemish government ) .",
    "-10pt              daelemans , w. , zavrel , j. , van der sloot , k. , & van den bosch , a. ( 1999 ) . _",
    "timbl : tilburg memory based learner version 2.0 reference guide _ ( technical report - ilk 99 - 01 ) .",
    "induction of linguistic knowledge research team , tilburg .",
    "daelemans , w. , & van den bosch , a. ( 1996 ) .",
    "language - independent data - oriented grapheme - to - phoneme conversion . in van santen ,",
    "j. , sproat , r. , olive , j. & hirschberg , j. ( eds . ) , _ progress in speech synthesis_. new york : springer verlag .",
    "van den bosch , a. , & daelemans , w. ( 1993 ) .",
    "data - oriented methods for grapheme - to - phoneme conversion .",
    "_ proceedings of the european chapter of the association for computational linguistics _",
    "77 - 90 ) .",
    "utrecht : association for computational linguistics .",
    "van halteren , h. , zavrel j. , & daelemans , w. ( 1998 ) . improving data driven wordclass tagging by system combination .",
    "_ proceedings of the joint seventeenth international conference on computational linguistics and thirty - sixth annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics _ ( pp . 491 - 497 ) .",
    "montreal : association for computational linguistics ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we apply rule induction , classifier combination and meta - learning ( stacked classifiers ) to the problem of bootstrapping high accuracy automatic annotation of corpora with pronunciation information . </S>",
    "<S> the task we address in this paper consists of generating phonemic representations reflecting the flemish and dutch pronunciations of a word on the basis of its orthographic representation ( which in turn is based on the actual speech recordings ) . </S>",
    "<S> we compare several possible approaches to achieve the text - to - pronunciation mapping task : memory - based learning , transformation - based learning , rule induction , maximum entropy modeling , combination of classifiers in stacked learning , and stacking of meta - learners . </S>",
    "<S> we are interested both in optimal accuracy and in obtaining insight into the linguistic regularities involved . </S>",
    "<S> as far as accuracy is concerned , an already high accuracy level ( 93% for celex and 86% for fonilex at word level ) for single classifiers is boosted significantly with additional error reductions of 31% and 38% respectively using combination of classifiers , and a further 5% using combination of meta - learners , bringing overall word level accuracy to 96% for the dutch variant and 92% for the flemish variant . </S>",
    "<S> we also show that the application of machine learning methods indeed leads to increased insight into the linguistic regularities determining the variation between the two pronunciation variants studied .    </S>",
    "<S> ( 0,0 ) ( 20,185 ) ( 440,0 ) in : _ proceedings of icml-2000 _ , </S>",
    "<S> pages 375382 , stanford university , ca , usa , 2000 . </S>"
  ]
}