{
  "article_text": [
    "finite state methods have proven quite successful for encoding rule - based generative phonology @xcite . recently , however , optimality theory @xcite has emphasized phonological accounts with default constraints on surface forms . while optimality theory ( ot ) has been successful in explaining certain phonological phenomena such as _ conspiracies _ @xcite , it has been less successful for computation .",
    "the negative result of has shown that in the general case the method of counting constraint violations takes ot beyond the power of regular relations . to handle such constraints , has proposed a finite - state approximation that counts constraint violations up to a predetermined bound . unlike previous approaches @xcite , karttunen s approach is encoded entirely in the finite state calculus , with no extra - logical procedures for counting constraint violations .    in this paper",
    ", we will present a new approach that seeks to minimize constraint violations without counting . rather than counting",
    ", our approach employs a filter based on matching constraint violations against violations in alternatively derivable strings . as in karttunen s counting approach , our approach uses purely finite state methods without extra - logical procedures .",
    "we show that our _ matching _ approach is superior to the _ counting _ approach for both size of resulting automata and closeness of approximation .",
    "the matching approach can in fact exactly model many ot analyses where the counting approach yields only an approximation ; yet , the size of the resulting automaton is typically much smaller .    in this paper",
    "we will illustrate the matching approach and compare it with the counting approach on the basis of the prince & smolensky syllable structure example @xcite , for each of the different constraint orderings identified in prince & smolensky .",
    "finite state approaches have proven to be very successful for efficient encoding of phonological rules . in particular , the work of has provided a compiler from classical generative phonology rewriting rules to finite state transducers .",
    "this work has clearly shown how apparently procedural rules can be recast in a declarative , reversible framework .    in the process of developing their rule compiler ,",
    "kaplan & kay also developed a high - level finite state calculus .",
    "they argue convincingly that this calculus provides an appropriate high - level approach for expressing regular languages and relations . the alternative conception in term of states and transitions can become unwieldy for all but the simplest cases .",
    "kaplan & kay s finite state calculus now exists in multiple implementations , the most well - known of which is that of . in this paper , however , we will use the alternative implementation provided by the fsa utilities @xcite .",
    "the fsa utilities allows the programmer to introduce new regular expression operators of arbitrary complexity .",
    "this higher - level interface allows us to express our algorithm more easily .",
    "the syntax of the fsa utilities calculus is summarized in table  [ notation ] .",
    ".[notation]regular expression operators .",
    "[ cols=\"^ , < \" , ]",
    "we have presented a new approach for implementing ot which is based on matching rather than the counting approach of .",
    "the matching approach shares the advantages of the counting approach in that it uses the finite state calculus and avoids off - line sorting and counting of constraint violations .",
    "we have shown that the matching approach is superior in that analyses that can only be approximated by counting can be exactly implemented by matching . moreover ,",
    "the size of the resulting transducers is significantly smaller .",
    "we have shown that the matching approach along with global permutation provides a powerful technique technique for minimizing constraint violations .",
    "although we have only applied this approach to permutations of the prince & smolensky syllabification analysis , we speculate that the approach ( even with local permutation ) will also yield exact implementations for most other ot phonological analyses . further investigation is needed here , particularly with recent versions of ot such as correspondence theory .",
    "another line of further research will be the proper integration of finite state ot with non - ot phonological rules as discussed , for example , in papers collected in .",
    "finally , we intend also to investigate the application of our approach to syntax .",
    "suggests that the constraint grammar approach of could be implemented using lenient composition .",
    "if this is the case , it could most probably be implemented more precisely using the matching approach .",
    "recently , has presented an implementation of dependency syntax which also uses lenient composition with the counting approach .",
    "the alternative of using a matching approach here should be investigated .",
    "dale gerdemann and gertjan van noord .",
    "transducers from rewrite rules with backreferences . in _",
    "ninth conference of the european chapter of the association for computational linguistics _ , bergen norway .",
    "andr kempe and lauri karttunen .",
    "parallel replacement in the finite - state calculus . in",
    "_ proceedings of the 16th international conference on computational linguistics ( coling ) _ , copenhagen , denmark .",
    "john mccarthy and alan prince .",
    "faithfulness and reduplicative identity .",
    "in jill beckman , laura  walsh dickey , and suzanne urbanczyk , editors , _ papers in optimality theory _ , pages 249384 .",
    "graduate linguistic student association , amherst , mass .",
    "university of massachusetts occasional papers in linguistics 18 .",
    "alan prince and paul smolensky .",
    "optimality theory : constraint interaction in generative grammar .",
    "technical report tr-2 , rutgers university cognitive science center , new brunswick , nj . mit press , to appear .        gertjan van noord and dale gerdemann .",
    "an extendible regular expression compiler for finite - state approaches in natural language processing . in o.",
    "boldt , h.  juergensen , and l.  robbins , editors , _ workshop on implementing automata ; wia99 pre - proceedings _ , potsdam , germany .    gertjan van noord",
    ". 1997 . : a toolbox to manipulate finite - state automata . in darrell raymond , derick wood , and sheng yu , editors , _ automata implementation _ ,",
    "pages 87108 .",
    "springer verlag .",
    "lecture notes in computer science 1260 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> previous work @xcite has shown that optimality theory with _ gradient _ </S>",
    "<S> constraints generally is not finite state . </S>",
    "<S> a new finite - state treatment of gradient constraints is presented which improves upon the approximation of . </S>",
    "<S> the method turns out to be exact , and very compact , for the syllabification analysis of . </S>"
  ]
}