{
  "article_text": [
    "[ intro ]    two - dimensional ( 2d ) intersymbol interference ( isi ) channels have received a lot of attention lately .",
    "this is mainly due to the fact that research focus in the storage industry is shifting towards developing a two - dimensional paradigm for storage .",
    "current storage technologies are restricted by physical limits which will prevent them from keeping up with the ever increasing demands for data storage .",
    "this has prompted the development of technologies that employ novel techniques for data storage .",
    "patterned magnetic media , in which information is stored in isolated single grain islands , make areal densities of the order of @xmath0 feasible , which is far beyond the limits of conventional magnetic recording .",
    "holographic storage , page - oriented optical memories , and the two - dimensional optical storage ( twodos ) technology are potential optical storage technologies of the future . due to the two - dimensional nature of storage ,",
    "these advanced storage technologies have 2d isi during the readback process .",
    "conventional recording technologies like magnetic hard disks and dvds have one - dimensional isi for which partial response maximum - likelihood decoding has been highly successful .",
    "extending prml to two dimensions is not straightforward since maximum - likelihood decoding in two - dimensions is computationally infeasible .",
    "this motivates the need for new methods to combat 2d isi .",
    "besides advanced storage technologies , multi - user communication scenarios , like cellular communication , also have situations where 2d isi is prevalent .",
    "detection schemes for 2d isi channels have been proposed by many researchers  @xcite-@xcite .",
    "et al . _ ,  @xcite , @xcite have proposed joint equalization and decoding schemes for 2d isi channels and have shown the benefit of using error - correction coding in conjunction with detection . more often than not , the isi is modeled as a linear filter .",
    "although a good starting point , the linearity assumption does nt hold in general .",
    "twodos is an example of a system where the isi is nonlinear .",
    "twodos is , potentially , the next generation optical storage technology with projected storage capacity twice that of the blu - ray disk and with ten times faster data access rates  @xcite , @xcite .",
    "as in conventional optical disk recording , bits in the twodos model are written on the disk in spiral tracks . however , instead of having a single row of bit cells , each track consists of a number of bit rows stacked together . thus , twodos is a truly two - dimensional storage paradigm .",
    "successive tracks on the disk are separated by a guard band which consists of one empty bit row .",
    "in addition , the bit cells are hexagonal ; this allows 15 percent higher packing density than rectangular bit cells leading to higher storage capacity . as in conventional optical disk recording ,",
    "a 0/1 is represented by the absence / presence of a pit on the disk surface .",
    "a scalar diffraction model proposed by coene  @xcite for optical recording is used to model the readback signal from the disk . under this model",
    "the readback intensity from the disk has linear and bilinear contributions from the stored data .",
    "various detection schemes for twodos have been proposed  @xcite-@xcite .",
    "these schemes , with the exception of that proposed by immink _",
    "et al . _ ,  @xcite , use two - dimensional partial response equalization to obtain a linear channel model for the isi . then",
    ", equalization methods like minimum mean - squared - error equalization , are used for detection on this linear channel model . since",
    "partial response equalization leads to noise correlation there is an inherent loss associated with these schemes .",
    "thus , it is prudent to search for decoding schemes that avoid partial response equalization and are designed taking into account the nonlinear structure of the isi .",
    "_ ,  @xcite propose using a stripe - wise viterbi detector that is designed for the nonlinear isi .",
    "however , they did not employ any error correction coding .    in this paper , a low - complexity scheme for joint equalization and decoding for nonlinear 2d isi channels is presented .",
    "the scheme was first proposed for linear 2d isi channels  @xcite and has been appropriately modified for the nonlinear channel .",
    "this scheme , called the full graph scheme , performs sum - product message - passing on a joint graph that represents the error - correction code and the nonlinear 2d isi channel . low - density parity - check ( ldpc ) codes  @xcite are used for error correction .",
    "simulations for the nonlinear channel model of twodos demonstrate the potential of using the full graph scheme .",
    "significant improvement in performance is observed over uncoded performance .",
    "noise tolerance thresholds are calculated for regular ldpc codes of different rates and full graph decoding for the nonlinear 2d isi channel .",
    "the paper is organized as follows .",
    "the model of the system and the channel model for twodos is described in section  [ channelmodel ] .",
    "the full graph message - passing algorithm and its performance for twodos are presented in section  [ fgmp ] . the density evolution algorithm and the noise tolerance thresholds",
    "are presented in section  [ denevol ] .",
    "section  [ conclusion ] concludes the paper .",
    "[ channelmodel ]    the system is modeled as a discrete - time communication system governed by the following equation ;    @xmath1    here , @xmath2 is the data received at the output of the channel .",
    "@xmath3 are the channel inputs , obtained by encoding the user data using an error correction code . the user data and the encoded data are assumed to be binary .",
    "ldpc codes are used for error correction .",
    "@xmath4 are samples of additive white gaussian noise ( awgn ) with zero mean and variance @xmath5 .",
    "@xmath6 is the set of indices of all the bits that interfere with @xmath7 during readback and @xmath8 is the function that encapsulates the nonlinear 2d interference .    for twodos ,",
    "a scalar diffraction model proposed by coene  @xcite for optical recording is used to model the readback signal . using the model , the readback signal ( optical intensity ) from the disk",
    "is    @xmath9    where @xmath10 and @xmath11 are respectively the linear and nonlinear isi coefficients .",
    "these coefficients depend on the parameters of the optical system , such as the wavelength of the laser , numerical aperture of the readback lens and geometry of the recording ( pit and track dimensions ) .",
    "the extent of the interference is limited by the spot size of the laser used for reading . for low - to - moderate storage densities",
    "this leads to interference from the nearest neighbors only , whereas , for high storage densities ( twice that of the blu - ray disk ) the interference from bits in the other shells also becomes significant  @xcite .    using a nearest neighbor interference model ,",
    "the signal intensity in  ( [ eq : twodosisi ] ) depends on the data bit stored in the central bit cell and the 6 neighboring bit cells . if it is assumed that two configurations with the same central bit and same number of nonzero neighbors have identical signal values",
    "then the signal intensity takes on 14 values corresponding to the 14 different configurations . fig .",
    "[ fig : hex ] shows four of these 14 configurations .",
    "as shown by coene  @xcite , this symmetry assumption is a good approximation .",
    "table  [ tbl : siglevel ] lists the signal levels for the 14 different configurations .",
    ".signal levels for twodos recording using scalar diffraction model and nearest neighbors .",
    "( reproduced from  @xcite ) [ cols=\"^,^,^ \" , ]     in proving the existence of thresholds for memoryless channels the crucial innovation of richardson and urbanke  @xcite was the `` concentration results . ''",
    "these results state that as the block length tends to infinity the performance of the ldpc decoder on random graphs converges to its expected behavior and that the expected behavior can be determined from the corresponding cycle - free behavior .",
    "et al . _ ,  @xcite extended these concentration results to one - dimensional isi channels by using ldpc coset codes .",
    "for 2d isi channels the concentration results do not hold since the channel graph has short cycles even in the limit of infinitely long block length .",
    "hence existence of thresholds can not be proved using the concentration analysis . however , our simulations seem to suggest that for the twodos channel the full graph algorithm respects the thresholds computed using density evolution .",
    "simulations for long block lengths ( @xmath12 ) show that very low bit error rates ( @xmath13 ) are obtained only when the noise variance is smaller than the threshold .",
    "although this does not prove the existence of a threshold , it suggests that the noise tolerance thresholds of table  [ tbl : thresholds ] are upper bounds on the performance of the full graph algorithm . besides that",
    ", the thresholds also serve as a design parameter ; given a system with a specified snr it is sufficient to pick an ldpc code having a smaller threshold snr thereby ensuring that the bit - error rate can be made arbitrarily small as the block length increases .",
    "[ conclusion ]    a message - passing based scheme for joint equalization and decoding for nonlinear two - dimensional intersymbol interference channels has been proposed .",
    "the scheme , called the full graph algorithm , performs sum - product message - passing on a joint graph of the error correction code and the channel .",
    "the complexity of the full graph algorithm is linear in the block length of the error correction code and quadratic in the size of interference neighborhood .",
    "the performance of the algorithm is studied for the two - dimensional optical storage paradigm .",
    "simulations for the nonlinear channel model of twodos show significant improvement over uncoded performance .",
    "the performance is about 8 db better than that reported by immink _",
    "et al . _ ,  @xcite for the same isi . using density evolution noise tolerance thresholds for the full graph algorithm",
    "are also computed .",
    "the authors would like to thank the reviewers for their helpful suggestions .",
    "this work was supported by the office of naval research under award n00014 - 03 - 1 - 0110 .",
    "j.  riani , j.  w.  m.  bergmans , s.  j.  l.  v.  beneden , w.  m.  j.  coene , and a.  h.  j.  immink , `` equalization and target response optimization for high density two - dimensional optical storage , '' , pp .  141 - 148 , may 2003 .          s .- y .  chung , g.  d.  forney , t.  richardson , and r.  urbanke , `` on the design of low - density parity - check codes within 0.0045 db of the shannon limit , '' _ ieee comm .  letters _ , vol .  5 , pp .",
    "58 - 60 , feb .  2001"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> an algorithm that performs joint equalization and decoding for channels with nonlinear two - dimensional intersymbol interference is presented . </S>",
    "<S> the algorithm performs sum - product message - passing on a factor graph that represents the underlying system . </S>",
    "<S> the two - dimensional optical storage ( twodos ) technology is an example of a system with nonlinear two - dimensional intersymbol interference . </S>",
    "<S> simulations for the nonlinear channel model of twodos show significant improvement in performance over uncoded performance . </S>",
    "<S> noise tolerance thresholds for the twodos channel computed using density evolution are also presented . </S>"
  ]
}