{
  "article_text": [
    "in order to be able to utilize the sophisticated searching capabilities of the ads for the scanned publications , page numbers and article metadata ( e.g. title , author , beginning and ending pages ) must be generated .",
    "a software tool to aid in the capture of these metadata has been developed and is available on the ads web site .",
    "a number of volunteers have worked with this interface and have generated the data for approximately 450 volumes of 44 different titles .",
    "some of the observatory publications that have been processed and are now searchable with the ads include selections from the following : _ annals of harvard college observatory _ ; _ astronomical and meteorological observations made at the u.s .",
    "naval observatory _ ; _ beobachtungs - ergebnisse der koniglichen sternwarte zu berlin _ ; and _ contributions from the rutherford observatory of columbia university new york_.    the capture of the metadata must be done in two stages . in the first stage ,",
    "page numbering mode , the scans are viewed sequentially and a page number is assigned to each image and duplicate scans are marked to be removed .",
    "( see figure 1 . )",
    "once this process has been completed the second stage , article metadata mode , can be done . at this time",
    "the images are shown with the assigned page numbers and the article information ( author , title , first / last page , and abstract ) can be entered .",
    "( see figure 2 . )",
    "once these data have been checked and processed further by the ads staff the articles in this collection become searchable using the ads .",
    "many volunteers from around the world have participated in this project . as of june 2006",
    "more than 120 people signed up as contributors .",
    "a smithsonian seidell grant was received and several library school students were hired to work on the metadata capture , yet the bulk of the work to date was done by several dedicated individuals .",
    "the ads assigns a bibcode to each entry .",
    "the bibcode is a 19 character string generated from the journal , volume and page information for each publication .",
    "many of the observatory publications required special handling to create a usable bibcode .",
    "the form of the bibliographic code is : yyyyjjjjjvvvvmppppa where : yyyy : year of publication ; jjjjj : a standard abbreviation for the journal ; vvvv : the volume number ( for a journal ) or an abbreviation that specifies what type of publication it is ( e.g. conf for conference proceedings ) ; m : qualifier for publication : e.g. l : letter , q - z : unduplicating character for identical codes , letter designations on pages ; pppp : page number ; a : the first letter of the last name of the first author .",
    "we assign a journal abbreviation ( bibstem ) which is a 5 character long string which identifies a publication . and similar to cataloging items for a print collection",
    ", we try to maintain continuity of a publication when a name change occurs . in some cases",
    "bound volumes were broken up or merged into `` logical '' series with related bibstems in order to be able to differentiate between the volumes .",
    "these decisions are made by checking bibliographic sources and by checking the astronomical literature to see how the original sources are referenced .",
    "when a compelling argument can be made , new abbreviations are added to the list . among the series",
    "which were split : 0.3 cm annalen der universitaets - sternwarte wien has been divided into : anwie and anwid dritte folge ",
    "third series 0.3 cm bulletin astronomique has been divided into : buast  bulletin astronomique ; buasi  bulletin astronomique , serie i ; buasr  bulletin astronomique , revue generale des travaux astronomiques .",
    "these titles were divided into different series because leaving them in one series created misleading or sometimes incorrect volume numbers in the bibcode .",
    "adding new bibstems allows us to keep the bibcode in alignment with what is written on the printed page .",
    "another recurrent issue was that many of the observatory publications were titled `` reports of the xyz observatory for the year 19xx . '' the year that we use in creating the bibcode is the publication year of the volume which was frequently not the same year which the report was written about . to address this issue",
    ", we continue to use the publication year in the bibcode but the report years are listed in the title field .",
    "an example is : 0.2 cm title : reports for the years 1900 to 1904 , presented by the board of managers of the observatory of yale university to the president and fellows 0.1 cm authors : elkin , william l. 0.1 cm journal : reports for the year presented by the board of managers of the observatory of yale university to the president and fellows , vol . 1",
    ", pp.1.1 - 1.8 0.1 cm publication date : 00/1910 0.1 cm origin : ads 0.1 cm bibliographic code : 1910yalry ... 1 .... 1e 0.2 cm    some publications used letters to designate different parts of the reports and page numbers such as d4 were listed in the table of contents . to deal with these types of page numbering schemes we needed to use our qualifier for publication field ( see m in the bibcode description . )",
    "hence `` publications of the u.s .",
    "naval observatory second series , vol .",
    "4 , pp . d:1-d:305 '' is given a bibcode of 1906pusno ...",
    "pagination must ensure uniqueness of page number within a volume , and attempts to reflect original ( printed ) page .",
    "another issue which periodically came up was that several publications had handwritten numbers on the pages in addition to those printed on the typed page .",
    "these numbers were a result of changes that were sometimes indicated in the editorial notes of various publications . again in this situation , we investigated how these volumes were cited in the literature and used the appropriate numbering based on the results of this research .    as a result of these oddities , it may be difficult or confusing for a user to find a particular article by searching using the journal name , volume number , page number or publication year .",
    "author or title searches in the historical literature would produce better results ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the nasa astrophysics data system in conjunction with the wolbach library at the harvard - smithsonian center for astrophysics is working on a project to microfilm historical observatory publications . the microfilm is then scanned for inclusion in the ads . </S>",
    "<S> the ads currently contains over 700,000 scanned pages of volumes of historical literature . </S>",
    "<S> many of these volumes lack clear pagination or other bibliographic data that are necessary to take advantage of the searching capabilities of the ads . </S>",
    "<S> this paper will address some of the interesting challenges that needed to be resolved during the processing of the observatory reports included in the ads . </S>"
  ]
}