{
  "article_text": [
    "although machine learning approaches have achieved success in many areas of natural language processing , researchers have only recently begun to investigate applying machine learning methods to discourse - level problems  ( litman 1994 , andernach 1996 , reithinger & klesen 1997 , wiebe et al .",
    "1997 , dieugenio , moore , & paolucci 1997 ) .",
    "an important task in discourse understanding is to interpret an utterance s * dialogue act * , which is a concise abstraction of the speaker s intention ; figure  [ ex - das ] presents a hypothetical dialogue that has been labeled with dialogue acts . recognizing dialogue acts is critical for discourse - level understanding and can also be useful for other applications , such as resolving ambiguity in speech recognition .",
    "however , computing dialogue acts is a challenging task , because often a dialogue act can not be directly inferred from a literal interpretation of an utterance .    [ cols=\"^,^,<,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     the effect of this modified filter varies dramatically , removing 23% ( 3224 ) to 72% ( 10,237 ) of the 14,231 phrases , as shown in figure  [ filter - results ] .",
    "however , figure  [ modified - filter ] shows that , as expected , using the filter does not cause the accuracy to decrease .",
    "in addition , it allows the system to maintain a high accuracy with fewer phrases .",
    "in particular , dcp s accuracy is significantly higher than all s accuracy when using only 5% ( 712 ) of the phrases in all .",
    "this suggests that the filter is effectively removing redundant phrases , to produce a more parsimonious set of phrases .",
    "this paper presented an investigation of various methods for selecting useful phrases .",
    "we argued that the traditional method of selecting phrases , in which a human researcher analyzes discourse and chooses general cue phrases by intuition , could miss useful phrases .",
    "to address this problem , we introduced _",
    "automatic _ methods that use a tagged training corpus to select phrases , and our experimental results demonstrated that these methods can outperform the manual approach .",
    "another advantage of automatic methods is that they can be easily transferred to another tagged corpus .",
    "our experiments also showed that the effectiveness of different methods on the dialogue act tagging task varied significantly , when using relatively small sets of phrases .",
    "the method that used our new metric , dcp , produced significantly higher accuracy scores than any of the baselines or traditional metrics that we analyzed .",
    "in addition , we hypothesized that repetitive phrases should be eliminated in order to produce a more concise set of phrases .",
    "our experimental results showed that our modified lexical filter can eliminate many redundant phrases without compromising accuracy , enabling the system to label dialogue acts effectively using only 5% of the phrases .",
    "there are a number of research areas that we would like to investigate in the future , including the following : we intend to experiment with different weightings of unsoundness and incompleteness in the dcp metric ; we believe that the simple lexical filter presented in this paper can be enhanced to improve it ; we would like to study the merits of enforcing frequency thresholds for methods that have a frequency bias ; for the semantic - clustering technique , we selected the clusters of words by hand , but it would be interesting to see how a taxonomy , such as wordnet , could be used to automate this process ; since all of the experiments in this paper were run on a single corpus , in order to show that these results may generalize to other tasks and domains , it would be necessary to run the experiments on different corpora .",
    "the members of the verbmobil research group at dfki in germany , including norbert reithinger , jan alexandersson , and elisabeth maier , generously granted us access to the verbmobil corpora .",
    "this work was partially supported by the nsf grant # ger-9354869 .            , b. , j.  moore , and m.   paolucci .",
    "1997 . learning features that predict cue usage . in _ proceedings of the 35th annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics and the 8th conference of the european chapter of the association for computational linguistics_. 8087 .",
    "madrid , spain .            , p. , d.  byron , and j.  allen .",
    "1998 . identifying discourse markers in spoken dialog . in _ applying machine learning to discourse processing :",
    "papers from the 1998 american association for artificial intelligence spring symposium_. 4451 .",
    "stanford , california .            ,",
    "d. 1994 . classifying cue phrases in text and speech using machine learning . in _ proceedings of the twelfth national conference of the american association for artificial intelligence_. 806813 .",
    "seattle , washington .          , l. and m.  marcus .",
    "1994 . exploring the statistical derivation of transformation rule sequences for",
    "part - of - speech tagging . in _ proceedings of the 32nd annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics_. 8695 .",
    "las cruces , new mexico . balancing act workshop .          , k. , s.  carberry , and k.  vijay - shanker .",
    "1998a . computing dialogue acts from features with transformation - based learning . in _ applying machine learning to discourse processing : papers from the 1998 american association for artificial intelligence spring symposium_. 9097 .",
    "stanford , california .    , k. , s.  carberry , and k.  vijay - shanker .",
    "dialogue act tagging with transformation - based learning . in _ proceedings of the 17th international conference on computational linguistics and the 36th annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics_. 11501156 .",
    "montral , qubec , canada .        , j. , t.  ohara , k.  mckeever , and t.  hrstroem - sandgren .",
    "an empirical approach to temporal reference resolution . in _ proceedings of the second conference on empirical methods in natural language processing_. 174186 .",
    "providence , rhode island .    ,",
    "i. and j.  pearl .",
    "comprehension - driven generation of meta - technical utterances in math tutoring . in _ proceedings of the sixth national conference of the american association for artificial intelligence_. philadelphia , pennsylvania ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present an empirical investigation of various ways to _ automatically _ identify phrases in a tagged corpus that are useful for dialogue act tagging . </S>",
    "<S> we found that a new method ( which measures a phrase s deviation from an optimally - predictive phrase ) , enhanced with a lexical filtering mechanism , produces significantly better cues than manually - selected cue phrases , the exhaustive set of phrases in a training corpus , and phrases chosen by traditional metrics , like mutual information and information gain . </S>"
  ]
}