{
  "article_text": [
    "in this paper we present an application of explanation - based learning ( ebl ) in the parsing module of a real - time english - spanish machine translation ( mt ) system designed to translate closed captions .",
    "the core idea of ebl is to convert previous analyses into some generalized form that can be called on when similar new examples are encountered (; ) .",
    "the main motivation for using an explanation - based learning approach to parsing is to increase efficiency .",
    "dramatic increases in speed can be obtained , at the expense of some coverage and increased memory requirements . in our mt system",
    ", efficiency is a major priority because the closed captions included with television and video broadcasts will be translated in real - time . in this paper",
    "we discuss the various efficiency / coverage trade - offs that are available within the ebl approach and describe the techniques we use to maximize coverage while maintaining efficiency as the primary focus .",
    "this paper is organized as follows . in section 2",
    "we introduce the ebl approach as it has been used in natural language processing .",
    "section 3 introduces the translation system in which the ebl parser is embedded and discusses the consequences of efficiency versus coverage in this domain . in section 4",
    "we introduce our ebl parser and describe the means we use to maximize efficiency and coverage .",
    "the performance of the system is discussed in section 5 .",
    "concluding comments can be found in section 6 .",
    "the ebl approach has been extended to natural language processing ( nlp ) by @xcite ( @xcite ) , @xcite ( @xcite ) , among others .",
    "they use existing wide - coverage grammars ( or a tree bank @xcite ) to analyze a set of training examples .",
    "the analyses are then generalized in various ways so that they are applicable to a wide range of examples beyond the original input string . in some cases these analyses",
    "are manually - checked before generalization to ensure they are the correct interpretation for the given input string @xcite .",
    "typically , the generalized parse is stored with a key that is used to subsequently identify when this parse is applicable to a new example . @xcite ( @xcite ) , for example , use the part of speech sequence of the input string as the key .",
    "the generalized structures that are saved during ebl training are referred to as ` generalized parses , ' ` macro - rules , ' ` generalized macro - rules , ' or ` rule - chunks ' . for our purposes",
    "these terms are inter - changeable .",
    "it is a characteristic of general wide - coverage grammars that they are extremely ambiguous .",
    "hence , parsing involves many options and can be quite slow .",
    "the advantage of ebl is that the run - time complexity of parsing is reduced since the majority of the parsing occurs off - line . at run - time , the system need only identify the most similar parse from those available . in theory the accuracy of the system can be increased since an ebl grammar is tuned to the rules actually used in the training domain .",
    "the one disadvantage of the ebl approach is that there is a loss of coverage since the ebl grammar is a subset of the original grammar used to derive it .",
    "if an example is not covered by the generalized examples in the ebl grammar then an analysis can not be provided .",
    "@xcite ( @xcite ) note that there are two main parameters that can be adjusted in the ebl learning phase : training corpus size and the number and type of macro - rules .",
    "they note that the larger the corpus the smaller the loss in coverage .",
    "however , it should be noted that the size / coverage correlation only holds within a corpus .",
    "comparisons can not be made across different corpora .",
    "for example , @xcite ( @xcite ) conduct tests on three different corpora .",
    "the coverage details of the ebl grammars they developed are given in table 1 .",
    "both the largest and the smallest corpora have extremely poor coverage .",
    "the median - sized corpus exhibits the best coverage .",
    "hence , the coverage of a given corpus depends both on the variability of the structures contained in the corpus as well as on its size .",
    ".coverage on 3 different corpora , srivinas & joshi 1995 [ cols=\"^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     these results indicate that the ebl approach will successfully meet the needs of our real - time english - spanish translation system .",
    "in addition , they provide clear indication of the areas in which we should focus to improve performance . for example , the coverage rate of 78.6% needs to be increased . to do this",
    "we plan to integrate our ebl approach with a partial parser .    secondly , for the cases where a parse is found , we need to increase the accuracy of the found parse .",
    "we will be analyzing our results to determine whether the correct parse is not available or if it is available but not selected .",
    "thirdly , we plan to extend the ebl approach to the generation phase of the translation system .",
    "the explanation - based learning approach to parsing provides an efficient means of providing analyses at the expense of some coverage . in this paper",
    "we described how we took advantage of these efficiency gains in order to minimize the analysis time in a real - time english to spanish mt system .",
    "we found that even when efficiency is the prime objective , there are techniques that can be used to minimize the coverage loss . on several levels",
    "we were able to maximize coverage while focussing on efficiency .",
    "this was achieved by making sure that the examples selected for training were instances of the most frequent constructions , by generalizing the input so that the parses produced would be of the most general type , and by generalizing the saved macro - rules and their key to the minimum needed for subsequent components of the system .              fred popowich , davide turcato , olivier laurens , paul mcfetridge , j.  devlan nicholson , patrick mcgivern , maricela corzo - pena , lisa pidruchney , and scott macdonald . 1997",
    "`` a lexicalist approach to the translation of colloquial text . '' , in _ proceedings of the 7th international conference on theoretical and methodological issues in machine translation _",
    ", pages 7686 , new mexico , usa .    rayner , m. 1988 .",
    "`` applying explanation - based generalization to natural language processing '' , in _ proceedings of the international conference on fifth generation computer systems _ , kyoto , pages 12671274 .",
    "rayner , m. and c. samuelsson .",
    "`` corpus - based grammar specialization for fast analysis '' , agnas et al . in _ spoken language translator : first year report _ ,",
    "sri technical report crc-043 .",
    "http://www.cam.sri.com , pages 4154 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this paper we present an application of explanation - based learning ( ebl ) in the parsing module of a real - time english - spanish machine translation system designed to translate closed captions . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the efficiency / coverage trade - offs available in ebl and introduce the techniques we use to increase coverage while maintaining a high level of space and time efficiency . </S>",
    "<S> our performance results indicate that this approach is effective . </S>"
  ]
}