{
  "article_text": [
    "a number of laboratories around the world [ tama@xcite , virgo@xcite , geo@xcite,@xcite , ligo@xcite ] are developing detectors for gravitational waves using laser interferometers to sense the very small strains anticipated from astrophysical sources . in a joint effort , two of these laboratories , ligo and geo600 ,",
    "have performed their first scientific observations .",
    "this note is intended to provide greater detail in the description of the detectors themselves as a companion to papers describing the data analysis and astrophysical conclusions from this science run ( designated s1 ) .",
    "both geo600 and ligo use the principle of the michelson interferometer , with its high sensitivity to differential changes @xmath0 of the lengths @xmath1 in the two perpendicular arm lengths @xmath2 and @xmath3 , to detect strains of the order of @xmath4 over a wide frequency range .",
    "the required sensitivity of the interferometric readout is achieved through the use of high circulating laser power ( to improve the shot - noise limited fringe resolution ) and through techniques to store the light in the interferometer arms ( to increase the phase shift due to a passing gravitational wave ) .",
    "the frequency range of interest for these instruments lies in the audio band ( @xmath550 - 5000 hz ) , leading to gravitational wavelengths @xmath6 of hundreds of km . because practical ground - based detectors are short compared to the wavelength , long interferometer arms are chosen to increase the sensitivity of the instrument .",
    "a vacuum system protects the beams from variations in the light path due to air density fluctuations .",
    "the test masses , which also serve as mirrors for the michelson interferometer , are suspended as pendulums and respond as free masses above their @xmath51 hz resonant frequency .",
    "external mechanical disturbances are suppressed through seismic isolation systems , and the in - band intrinsic thermal noise is controlled via careful choice of materials and construction techniques .",
    "the ligo observatory construction started in 1994 at the ligo site in hanford , washington , usa .",
    "construction at the livingston , louisiana usa site began a year later in june 1995 .",
    "the buildings and 4 km concrete arm - support foundations were completed in 1998 .",
    "the vacuum systems were completed in 1999 , and detector installation was substantially completed in 2000 .",
    "the first operation of a ligo interferometer took place in october 2000 .",
    "this marked the initiation of the commissioning , consisting of periods of intense testing and tuning of subsystems , separated by periods where the interferometers were run as complete systems .",
    "these engineering runs were primarily intended to assess the progress toward full detector operation .",
    "however , they were also used to collect data that could be used to test data handling , archiving and analysis software .",
    "progress through the commissioning phase has been steady , both in terms of improving sensitivity and in terms of reliable operation with a reasonable duty cycle . by summer 2002 , the improvements had been sufficient that a short duration science run could be expected to achieve limits on the observations of gravitational waves that would be comparable to or better than previous experimental limits .",
    "consequently , a two - week observation period was scheduled , and other laboratories operating interferometer detectors were invited to join in simultaneous operation , as documented here .",
    "further progress in sensitivity has subsequently been achieved through additional commissioning .",
    "the construction of geo600 started in 1995 as a german / british collaboration on a site near hannover , germany . because the site constrained the length of the arms to 600 m , an advanced optical layout and novel techniques for the suspension systems",
    "were included in the detector design .",
    "after the buildings and the trenches were finished in 1997 the complete vacuum system was installed and tested .",
    "the construction phase was followed by the installation of the two suspended triangular mode cleaners which have been operating reliably since 2000 . to gain experience with the alignment and length control of long baseline cavities",
    "the commissioning continued with the installation of a 1200 m long fabry - perot cavity formed by one interferometer arm and the power recycling mirrors . to reduce",
    "the risk of contaminating or damaging the expensive main interferometer mirrors , lower grade test mirrors suspended in steel wire slings were used for the 1200 m cavity experiment and for the commissioning of the power recycled michelson interferometer which started in summer 2001 .",
    "a first engineering test run was conducted in jan 2002 in coincidence with a ligo engineering run .",
    "the installation of the automatic alignment system for the michelson interferometer and for the power - recycling cavity was a key step towards a duty cycle of more than 98% which was achieved in the 17 day s1 science run .",
    "the instrument ran as a power - recycled folded - arm michelson for s1 ; commissioning of signal recycling started after s1 and is expected to bring the geo detector a significant step closer to its design sensitivity .",
    "the primary goal of the s1 run was to collect a significant body of data to analyze for gravitational waves .",
    "although the sensitivity of all the instruments was far from the design goal and the relatively short run time made it unlikely that a positive detection would be made , it was expected that upper limits could be derived from the data that would be comparable to or better than previous gravitational wave observations .",
    "furthermore , the analysis provided the opportunity to test the methodologies with real gravitational wave detector data",
    ". estimates of sensitivity for gravitational wave interferometers have almost always been based on the assumption of gaussian noise .",
    "while this is a good point of departure for many of the limiting noise sources ( e.g. , shot noise or thermal noise ) , many others ( e.g. , seismic noise ) are not expected to be so well - behaved .",
    "thus , letting the data analysis confront the behavior of real noise as early as possible is crucial to developing and testing the analysis techniques .",
    "other goals for s1 were aimed at improving our understanding of the detectors and their operation .",
    "these include :    1 .   investigating the factors that influence duty cycle for the interferometers .",
    "long periods of operation with stable conditions are important for understanding the causes for the interferometers to lose ` lock ' ( loss of resonance condition for light in the interferometer cavities and consequent loss of linear operation of the sensing system ) 2 .",
    "characterization of drifts in alignment and optimization of the alignment control systems 3 .",
    "testing and optimization of on - line monitoring tools for assessing performance and maintaining high sensitivity 4 .",
    "training and practice for instrument operators and scientific monitors .",
    "this paper provides a description of the ligo and geo interferometers as they were used in the s1 run .",
    "it is intended as a companion to the data analysis papers based on data from this run .",
    "because commissioning was still underway , many parts of the detectors were not in their intended final operational configuration , and an important emphasis of this paper will be to identify and highlight those differences .",
    "the ligo detector array comprises three interferometers at two sites .",
    "the ligo livingston observatory ( llo ) contains three main instrument bays at the vertex and ends of the l - shaped site and houses a single interferometer with 4 km long arms ( designated l1 ) .",
    "the ligo hanford observatory ( lho ) has two additional experimental halls at the midpoint in each arm which enable it to accommodate two interferometers , one with 4 km long arms ( designated h1 ) and one with 2 km arms ( h2 ) .",
    "the orientation of the hanford site was chosen to be as closely aligned ( modulo @xmath7 ) to the livingston site as possible , consistent with the earth s curvature and the need for the sites to be level ; this maximizes the common response to a signal , given the quadrupolar form of the anticipated gravitational waves .",
    "the arms have an included angle of @xmath8 . the locations and orientations of the two ligo sites",
    "are given in table  [ table : ligo - where ] .",
    ".location and orientation of the ligo detectors .",
    "note that the livingston observatory is rotated by @xmath9 with respect to the hanford observatory , when the earth s curvature is taken into account . [ cols=\"<,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]      each ligo interferometer had a defined operating state , including which servos were operational , their gains , acceptable light levels on photodiodes , etc .",
    "the instrument operator on duty was responsible to lock the interferometer and put it into the required configuration , assisted by computer scripts that set the majority of the parameters .",
    "when the desired state was achieved , the operator issued a command that put the interferometer into  science mode \" , effectively declaring that the detector was in the proper configuration . at that time",
    ", personnel were restricted from entering the experimental halls .",
    "a computer program began monitoring the computer control network for any unauthorized changes to the interferometer state , and if any were detected , it automatically removed the interferometer from science mode and raised an alarm .    only data taken in science mode segments longer than 300 seconds were deemed suitable for analysis",
    "however , because of the still incomplete state of the commissioning , the designation of an interferometer as being in science mode was not sufficient to ensure that the data were of uniform quality .",
    "thus each data analysis effort independently evaluated the science mode data ( assessing , for example , the noise level or the quality of the calibration ) and made their own selection of data for further analysis , based on the particular requirements of that analysis .",
    "the ligo noise level for s1 shown in figure 8 is substantially above the design goal . at high frequencies ,",
    "most of the extra noise can be attributed to the fact that the interferometers were effectively using very low laser power , and using the detection sidebands inefficiently , as described above .",
    "this leads to a poorer sensing resolution due to shot noise and electronics noise . at low frequencies ,",
    "the excess noise is mainly due to noise in the control systems , typically from auxiliary control systems such as angular controls .",
    "much of this noise is due to the incomplete commissioning of the alignment system , and control system filters which are not yet optimized .",
    "the numerous peaks in the spectrum are due to a number of different sources",
    ". multiples of 60 hz are prominent ( at the @xmath10 level in strain ) , in part due to switching power supplies that are scheduled for replacement .",
    "acoustic peaks , due to fans and other rotating mechanical equipment , enter through acoustic and mechanical coupling mechanisms .",
    "improvements in acoustic shielding and in the optical layouts to reduce acoustic sensitivity are planned to address these peaks .",
    "the signal that is analyzed to search for gravitational wave signals is obtained from the photodiode at the antisymmetric port .",
    "since this is the error signal for the differential arm length , the effect of the feedback loop gain must be measured and compensated for . the absolute scale for strain",
    "is established using the laser wavelength , measuring the mirror drive signal required to move through a given number of interference fringes .",
    "the frequency response of the detector is determined via swept - sine excitations of the end mirrors made periodically through the run .",
    "one of the difficulties with the s1 data was that drifts in the alignment ( because the wavefront sensing portion of the alignment control system was not fully operational ) caused changes in the coupling of light into the interferometer .",
    "this shows up directly in changes in the optical gain of the interferometers ( e.g. , watts per meter at the antisymmetric port ) , and in changes of the overall gain of the servo system holding the interferometers in lock .",
    "the first effect is an overall scaling in the signal , and was typically 10% or less in s1 .",
    "however , the change in servo gain gives a frequency - dependent correction to the calibration function , which can be several times larger than the overall scale change , particularly near the unity gain point of the differential arm servo ( between 150 and 200 hz ) . to compensate for this problem ,",
    "the length of one of the arms was modulated sinusoidally at two frequencies with known amplitudes using the actuators on one of the end test masses . by monitoring the size of the resulting signals in the antisymmetric port photodiode signal , the optical gain of the interferometer",
    "could be tracked on a minute - by - minute basis , and corrections for the drift applied .",
    "the calibration procedure and results are described in more detail in reference [ 41 ] ; the overall statistical error is about @xmath1110% .",
    "other measures of performance also showed non - stationarity .",
    "the band - limited rms in the antisymmetric port photodiode sometimes showed degradation during a locked section as the interferometer drifted away from the initial alignment .  glitch \" rates included variations of factors of 3 to 100 between locked sections .",
    "this non - stationary behavior affects some searches more than others , but should improve as the detectors approach full operation .",
    "the geo600 sensitivity for the s1 run are shown in figure [ figure : geo - sensitivity ] .",
    "the duty cycle was 98% ( see table 3 ) and the longest continuous stretch of data is 121h . during",
    "the s1 run geo600 was operating in the power - recycled michelson interferometer configuration with a reduced power recycling gain and reduced input laser power .",
    "the laser power injected into the first mode cleaner was attenuated to 2w .",
    "the overall optical transmission of the mode cleaners , phase modulators and isolators is 52% which leaves approximately 1w of laser light being injected into the interferometer .",
    "the power buildup in the power recycling cavity was 300 which was limited by the 1.3% transmission of the power recycling mirror installed during s1 .",
    "the signal recycling mirror was not installed and test mirrors suspended in wire slings were used for the for the beamsplitter and the inboard mirrors of the folded interferometer arms .",
    "due to the automatic alignment system @xcite the longest duration without manual alignment of the mode cleaners was more than one year prior to s1 and no manual alignment of the mode cleaners was undertaken during the s1 run .",
    "operator alignment of the power recycling cavity and the michelson interferometer was needed only a few times after major seismic disturbances .",
    "an automatic lock acquisition process was initiated whenever any of the cavities or the michelson interferometer lost lock .",
    "this system and the automatic alignment system were very stable and reliable and no operator presence at the detector was required at night .",
    "calibration of geo600 during the s1 run was achieved by imposing known forces on two of the mirrors using electrostatic drives that were fitted to provide differential control of the interferometer . in the final geo600 configuration ,",
    "radiation pressure from a modulated laser beam which will be aligned onto and reflected by one of the end mirrors will introduce calibration lines with known amplitude into the output signal of the detector .",
    "the spectrum of the applied calibration force consisted of a line at 244 hz and its odd harmonics , generated by suitable filtering from a square wave .",
    "the signal generator used to produce the series was phase - locked to the gps stabilized clock to which the data acquisition system was also synchronized .",
    "the electrostatic actuators were calibrated with respect to electro - magnetic actuators one stage higher up on the same suspension chains .",
    "these were in turn calibrated by applying forces large enough to enable simple fringe counting .",
    "the actuators were found to be adequately linear to allow this calibration method to succeed with good reliability .",
    "the calibrated gravitational wave channel was generated by measuring the amplitudes of the calibration peaks in 1 s frames of data .",
    "these measurements were used to determine the unknown calibration factors ( essentially the overall optical transfer function magnitude and the gain of the relevant control loops ) by fitting the data to a model based on previously measured transfer functions of the electro - mechanical control system .",
    "the calibration coefficients were smoothed over periods of one minute .",
    "suitable time domain digital filters were generated to produce a calibrated gravitational wave channel .",
    "the overall calibration uncertainty was about 4% for signal frequencies above 200 hz and 6% between 50 hz and 200 hz .",
    "further detail of this process can be found in reference@xcite .",
    "the s1 science run is an important milestone for ligo and geo , providing the first data for scientific analysis for two of the newest generation of gravitational wave interferometer observatories .",
    "even though the detectors were operated in a preliminary configuration with many features not implemented , the data were relatively well behaved , and the sensitivity great enough to improve on prior observations with broadband gravitational wave detectors .      * a search for the inspiral signal from binary neutron star mergers@xcite * a search for continuous waves from a rapidly rotating pulsar ( j1939 + 2134)@xcite * a search for short bursts of gravitational waves from unknown sources@xcite * a search for a stochastic background of gravitational waves of cosmological origin@xcite    in all cases , the sensitivity for s1 was not expected to be sufficient to make a positive detection , so the emphasis in these analyses is to develop techniques for searching for gravitational waves , to confront the problems of dealing with real data with its deviations from the usual assumptions of gaussianity and stationarity , and to set improved upper limits on the flux of gravitational waves incident on the earth",
    ".    continued rapid improvements are expected in both the ligo and geo detectors .",
    "immediately after the s1 run , geo commenced the installation and commissioning of the complete optical configuration by adding the signal recycling mirror .",
    "ligo has continued to complete the control system and tuning , leading to more than a factor 10 improvement in the sensitivity .",
    "new science data runs are taking place to collect data with this better performance",
    ". there will be a smooth transition from the present epoch , where commissioning dominates , to the goal of effectively continuous astrophysical data collection , as the instruments approach their goal sensitivity .",
    "the data are already interesting in terms of constraining astrophysical models from upper limits , and significant improvements in the near future will make even better upper limits possible , along with the increased potential of directly detecting gravitational waves of astrophysical origin .",
    "the authors gratefully acknowledge the support of the united states national science foundation for the construction and operation of the ligo laboratory and the particle physics and astronomy research council of the united kingdom , the max - planck - society and the state of niedersachsen / germany for support of the construction and operation of the geo600 detector .",
    "the authors also gratefully acknowledge the support of their research by these agencies and by the australian research council , the natural sciences and engineering research council of canada , the council of scientific and industrial research of india , the department of science and technology of india , the spanish ministerio de ciencia y tecnologia , the john simon guggenheim foundation , the david and lucile packard foundation , the research corporation , and the alfred p. sloan foundation .",
    "this paper has been assigned ligo laboratory document number ligo ",
    "p030024 .",
    "k. danzmann , ",
    "geo600 - a 600-m laser interferometric gravitational wave antenna , \" in first edoardo amaldi conference on gravitational wave experiments e. coccia , g. pizella and f. ronga , eds . , ( world scientific , singapore ) , p.100 - 111 ( 1995 ) .",
    "b. willke , p. aufmuth , c. aulbert , s. babak , r. balasubramanian , b.w .",
    "barr , s. berukoff , s. bose , g. cagnoli , m.m .",
    "casey , d. churches , d. clubley , c.n .",
    "colacino , d.r.m .",
    "crooks , c. cutler , k. danzmann , r. davies , r. dupuis , e. elliffe , c. fallnich , a. freise , s. gossler , a. grant , h. grote , g. heinzel , a. heptonstall , m. heurs , m. hewitson , j. hough , o. jennrich , k. kawabe , k. kotter , v. leonhardt , h. lck , m. malec , p.w .",
    "mcnamara , s.a .",
    "mcintosh , k. mossavi , s. mohanty , s. mukherjee , s. nagano , g.p .",
    "newton , b.j .",
    "owen , d. palmer , m.a .",
    "papa , m.v .",
    "plissi , v. quetschke , d.i .",
    "robertson , n.a .",
    "robertson , s. rowan , a. rdiger , b.s .",
    "sathyaprakash , r. schilling , b.f .",
    "schutz , r. senior , a.m. sintes , k.d .",
    "skeldon , p. sneddon , f. stief , k.a .",
    "strain , i. taylor , c.i .",
    "torrie , a. vecchio , h. ward , u. weiland , h. welling , p. williams , w. winkler , g. woan , i. zawischa ,  a report on the status of the geo600 gravitational wave detector \" classical & quantum gravity , 19 , 1377 - 87 ( 2002 ) .",
    "a. abramovici , w.e .",
    "althouse , r.w.p .",
    "drever , y.gursel , s. kawamura , f.j .",
    "raab , d. shoemaker , l. sievers , r.e .",
    "spero , k.s .",
    "thorne , r.e .",
    "vogt , r. weiss , s.e .",
    "whitcomb , and m.e .",
    "zucker ,  ligo - the laser interferometer gravitational - wave observatory , \" science 256 325 - 333 ( 1992 ) .",
    "g. heinzel , k.a .",
    "strain , j. mizuno , k.d .",
    "skeldon , b. willke , w. winkler , r. schilling ,  experimental demonstration of a suspended dual recycling interferometer \" , a. rdiger , and k. danzmann , phys .",
    "81 , 5493 ( 1998 ) .",
    "plissi , c.i .",
    "torrie , m.e .",
    "husman , n.a .",
    "robertson , k.a .",
    "strain , h. ward , h. lck , j. hough , ",
    "geo600 triple pendulum suspension system : seismic isolation and control \" , rev .",
    "instrum . ,",
    "71 , 2539 ( 2000 ) .",
    "s. gossler , m.m .",
    "casey , a. freise , a. grant , h. grote , g. heinzel , m. heurs , m.e .",
    "husman , k. koetter , v. leonhardt , h. lck , m. malec , s. nagano , p.w .",
    "mcnamara , k. mossavi , m.v .",
    "plissi , v. quetschke , d.i .",
    "robertson , n.a .",
    "robertson , a. rdiger , r. schilling , k.d .",
    "skeldon , k.a .",
    "strain , c.i .",
    "torrie , h. ward , u. weiland , b. willke , w. winkler , j. hough and k. danzmann ,  mode - cleaning and injection optics of the gravitational - wave detector geo600 \" , rev .",
    "74 , 3787 ( 2003 ) .",
    "h. grote , g. heinzel , a. freise , s. gossler , b. willke , h. lck , h. ward , m. casey , k.a .",
    "strain , d. robertson , j. hough , k. danzmann , proc . of the 4th edoardo amaldi on gravitational waves ,  the automatic alignment system of geo600 \" class .",
    "quantum grav .",
    ", 19 , 1849 ( 2002 ) .",
    "a. freise , m.m .",
    "casey , s. gossler , h. grote , g. heinzel , h. lck , d.i .",
    "robertson , k.a .",
    "strain , h. ward , b. willke , j. hough , k. danzmann ,  the automatic alignment system of geo600 \" , proc . of the 4th edoardo amaldi on gravitational waves , class .",
    "quantum grav .",
    ", 19 , 1389 ( 2002 ) .",
    "l. buboltz , k. drake , v. gervais , r. johnson , l. jones , s. peters , m. tellalian , and r. weiss ,  ligo beam tube module design , fabrication & installation , \" proceedings of the 9th international conference of pressure vessel technology , 1 , 797 ( 2000 ) .",
    "althouse , s. hand , l.k .",
    "jones , a. lazzarini , and r. weiss ,  precision alignment of the ligo 4 km arms using the dual- frequency differential global positioning system , \" rev .",
    ", 72 , 3086 - 3094 ( 2001 ) .",
    "d. li , d. coyne , and j. camp ,  optical contamination screening of materials with a high - finesse fabry - perot cavity resonated continuously at 1.06-um wavelength in vacuum , \" appl .",
    "optics , 38 , 5378 - 5383 ( 1999 ) .",
    "s. whitcomb , g. billingsley , j. carri , a. golovitser , d. jungwirth , w. kells , h. yamamoto , b. bochner , y. hefetz , p. saha , and r. weiss ,  optics development for ligo , \" proceedings of the tama international workshop on gravitational wave detection , november 11 - 12 , 1996 , saitama , japan , k. tsubono , m .- k .",
    "fujimoto , and k. kuroda , eds .",
    ", universal academy press , inc . ,",
    "tokyo , 229- 239 ( 1997 ) .",
    "walsh , a.j .",
    "leistner , j. seckold , b.f .",
    "oreb , and d.i .",
    "farrant ,  fabrication and measurement of optics for the laser interferometer gravitational wave observatory , \" appl .",
    "optics , 38 , 2870 - 2879 ( 1999 ) .",
    "j. heefner , r. bork ,  the ligo suspended optic digital control system , \" in _ proc . of the 8th international conference on accelerator and large experimental physics control systems ( icalepcs 2001 ) _ ed .",
    "h.  shoaee , econf * c011127 * , weap059 ( 2001 ) [ arxiv : physics/0110071 ] .",
    "giaime , e.j .",
    "daw , m. weitz , r. adhikari , p. fritschel , r. abbott , r. bork , and j. heefner ,  feedforward reduction of the microseism disturbance in a long - baseline interferometric gravitational - wave detector , \" rev .",
    "74 , 218 - 224 ( 2003 ) .",
    "p. fritschel , r. bork , g. gonzalez , n. mavalvala , d. ouimette , h. rong , d. sigg , and m. zucker ,  readout and control of a power - recycled interferometric gravitational - wave antenna , \" appl .",
    "40 , 4988- 4998 ( 2001 ) .",
    "m. evans , n. mavalvala , p. fritschel .",
    "r. bork , b. bhawal , r. gustafson , w. kells , m. landry , d. sigg , r. weiss , s. whitcomb and h. yamamoto ,  lock acquisition of a gravitational wave interferometer , \" optics letters , 27 , 598 ( 2002 ) .",
    "h.yamamoto et al ,  end to end simulation program for gravitational - wave detectors , \" in gravitational wave detection ii , s. kawamura and n. mio , editors , frontiers science series no .",
    "32 , 331 - 336 ( 2000 ) .",
    "d. sigg , r. bork , and j. zweizig ,  detector characterization and global diagnostics system of the laser interferometer gravitational - wave observatory ( ligo ) , \" proceedings of the ninth marcel grossman conference , july 2 - 8 , 2000 , rome , italy ( 2001 ) .",
    "s. anderson , k. blackburn , a. lazzarini , w. majid , t. prince , and r. williams ,  the ligo data analysis system , \" gravitational waves and experimental gravity : proceedings of the xxxivth recontres de moriond , january 23 - 30 , 1999 , les arcs , france , j. tran thanh van , j. dumarchez , s. reynaud , c. salomon , s. thorsett , and j.y .",
    "vinet , eds . , world publishers , hanoi , 243 ( 1999 ) .",
    "e. deelman , c. kesselman , g. mehta , l. meshkat , l. pearlman , k. blackburn , p. ehrens , a. lazzarini , r. williams , s. koranda , `` griphyn and ligo , building a virtual data grid for gravitational wave scientists , '' high performance distributed computing , hpdc-11 225 - 234 ( 2002 ) .",
    "g. cagnoli , l. gammaitoni , j. hough , j. kovalik , s. mcintosh , m. punturo , s. rowan ,  very high @xmath12 measurements on a fused silica monolithic pendulum for use in enhanced gravity wave detectors , \" phys .",
    "letters , 85 , 2442 - 5 ( 2000 ) .",
    "i. zawischa , m. brendel , k. danzmann , c. fallnich , m. heurs , s. nagano , v. quetschke , g. welling , b. willke ,  the geo600 laser system \" , proc . of the 4th edoardo amaldi on gravitational waves , class .",
    "quantum grav .",
    ", 19 , 1775 ( 2002 ) .",
    "r. adhikari , g. gonzalez , m. landry , and b. oreilly ,  calibration of the ligo detectors for the first scientific run , \" to appear in the proceedings of the 7th gravitational wave data analysis workshop , kizu - cho , kyoto , japan , 17 - 19 december 2002 , class . quant .",
    "( 2003 ) .",
    "ligo scientific collaboration ,  setting upper limits on the strength of periodic gravitational waves using the first science data from the the geo600 and ligo detectors , \" to be submitted to phys rev d ( 2003 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> for 17 days in august and september 2002 , the ligo and geo interferometer gravitational wave detectors were operated in coincidence to produce their first data for scientific analysis . </S>",
    "<S> although the detectors were still far from their design sensitivity levels , the data can be used to place better upper limits on the flux of gravitational waves incident on the earth than previous direct measurements . </S>",
    "<S> this paper describes the instruments and the data in some detail , as a companion to analysis papers based on the first data .    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,       ligo , gravitational wave , interferometer , observatory 04.89.nn , 07.60.ly , 95.45.+i , 95.55.ym </S>"
  ]
}