{
  "article_text": [
    "the hypothesis that the true ground state of baryonic matter may have a roughly equal fraction of u , d and s quarks , termed strange quark matter ( sqm ) is of recent origin @xcite . this is based on the fact that at some density , when the down quark chemical potential is larger than the strange quark mass , conversion to strange quarks can occur .",
    "this reduces the energy density by having 3 ( u , d and s ) fermi seas instead of just 2 ( u , d ) , and can yield a state of energy lower than nuclear matter .",
    "it is also possible to explain why such a state has escaped detection .",
    "this involves at least two puzzles .",
    "* why does ordinary 2 flavour nuclear matter , the observed ground state of baryonic matter , not decay into strange quark matter .",
    "+ the answer is that this decay is not like the radioactive decay of unstable nuclei , as the nucleons can not decay one by one as it is not energetically favourable for the nucleon to change into a @xmath0 , but only for the entire nuclear matter to transmute into strange quark matter and this requires a high order of the flavour changing weak interaction which renders the cross section to be exponentially and unobservably small .",
    "* why was this matter not created in the evolution of the universe ?",
    "+ this is due to the fact that as the universe cooled past a temperature equivalent to the strange quark mass , strange quark matter was not the chosen state of high entropy . since the u and d quarks have almost neglible masses at this scale , as the temperature dropped further the strange quarks were boltzmann suppressed leaving just the u and d quarks , which as we know converted largely into nucleons . for details",
    "we refer the reader to @xcite .",
    "it is really quite remarkable that the ground state can not be realised easily !",
    "only if we can produce high baryon density by compression can sqm be realised - for example , in the interior of neutron stars .",
    "we now turn to the theoretical underpinning of the case for sqm being the potential ground state of matter .",
    "we already know , empirically as well as theoretically , the ground state energy of saturation nuclear matter - 930 mev for the fe@xmath1 nuclei .",
    "however , for calculating quark matter we take recourse to phenomenological models , which are pointers but foundationally inadequate and here lies the uncertainty .",
    "the usual ground state calculation for sqm treats the quarks as a free fermi gas of current quarks .",
    "the volume in which these quarks live comes at a cost of a constant energy density that provides ` confinement . '",
    "it is equivalently the same constant value of negative pressure and hence is often called the bag pressure term .",
    "this is a simple extension of the mit bag philosophy , where the origin of the constant energy density is the fact that quarks are confined .",
    "the bag pressure sets the equilibrium or ground state energy density and the baryon density .",
    "it can be fixed from the nucleon sector .",
    "further structure can be introduced by adding interaction between the quarks , e.g. , one gluon exchange .",
    "such a phenomenological model has been used by witten @xcite and later by farhi and jaffe @xcite and others for sqm ( see @xcite for a review ) .",
    "it is clear that such a model is phenomenological and does not , for example , address the issue of the spontaneous breaking of chiral symmetry  an essential feature of the strong interactions .",
    "the quark matter in the bag is in a chirally restored state .",
    "this means that as in the case of superconductivity it costs energy to expel the chiral condensate which characterises the true vacuum state . clearly , this will act just like the bag energy density / pressure",
    "however , its value will be determined by the energy density of the chiral condensate .",
    "such a term binds but does not confine .",
    "confinement thus requires further input than just a bag pressure .",
    "all results for the sqm state will depend on the model that is used to describe it and the ground state thereof . in a chiral model we find that there is a plurality of ground states . of these , we find that one particular ground state has the property of chiral restoration at high density and parallels the mit bag state used in most previous estimates , where the ground state is a fermi sea of current quarks ( chirally restored quark matter or crqm ) with the bag pressure provided by absence of the chiral condensate .",
    "this regime sets the connection between the paramaters of the chiral model and the mit bag model used in @xcite .    unlike for the mit bag case where the bag pressure is a parameter , in our formulation , it is the chiral condensate energy and is given in terms of the parameters of low energy phenomenology - the pion decay constant , @xmath2 , which is precisely known and the scalar coupling or the @xmath3 mass , which is rather poorly ` known ' .",
    "there are , however , other ground states for this model , in which the pattern of symmetry breaking is different at high density , for example , the pion condensed ( pc ) ground state in which the chiral symmetry is still spontaneously broken at high density .",
    "such a state has lower ground state energy than the former and thus needs to be considered in the description of quark matter .",
    "as we show it is found to influence the regime of existence of sqm importantly .",
    "we consider this issue in the framework of an intermediate chiral lagrangian that has chiral ssb .",
    "such an effective lagrangian has quarks , gluons and a chiral multiplet of @xmath4 $ ] that flavor couples only to the quarks . for @xmath5 chiral symmetry ,",
    "we have    @xmath6    the masses of the scalar ( ps ) and fermions follow on the minimization of the potentials above . this minimization yields @xmath7 where @xmath2 is the pion decay constant .",
    "it follows that @xmath8 this theory is an extension of qcd by additionally coupling the quarks to a chiral multiplet , @xmath9 and @xmath10 @xcite .",
    "this lagrangian has produced some interesting physics at the mean field level @xcite :    1 .",
    "it provides a quark soliton model for the nucleon in which the nucleon is realized as a soliton with quarks being bound in a skyrmion configuration for the chiral field expectation values @xcite .",
    "2 .   such a model gives a natural explanation for the ` proton spin puzzle ' .",
    "this is because the quarks in the background fields are in a spin , isospin singlet state in which the quark spin operator averages to zero . on the collective quantization of this soliton to give states of good spin and isospin the quark spin operator acquires a small non zero contribution @xcite .",
    "3 .   such a lagrangian also seems to naturally produce the gottfried sum rule @xcite .",
    "such a nucleon can also yield from first principles ( but with some drastic qcd evolution ) , structure functions for the nucleon which are close to the experimental ones @xcite .",
    "5 .   in a finite temperature field theory",
    "such an effective lagrangian also yields screening masses that match with those of a finite temperature qcd simulation with dynamical quarks @xcite .",
    "this lagrangian also gives a consistent equation of state for strongly interacting matter at all density @xcite .",
    "we shall first briefly establish the parameters of the above effective lagrangian and the specific connection with the mit bag model of confinement used in previous treatments of sqm .",
    "as already pointed out above , the nucleon in this model is realised as a soliton in a chiral symmetry broken background with quark bound states @xcite .",
    "this sets the value of the yukawa coupling , @xmath11 , required to fit the nucleon mass in a mean field theory ( mft ) treatment to be , @xmath12 .    for the nucleon",
    "the dependence on the scalar coupling , @xmath13 , is marginal as long as it is not too small .",
    "further , in mft , the qcd coupling does not play a role ; only if 1 gluon exchange is included does the qcd coupling enter .",
    "there are no other parameters except @xmath2 , the pion decay constant which is set to 93 mev .",
    "the connection to mit bag description of quark matter is set as follows .",
    "the last term in the above lagrangian , the potential functional , @xmath14 is minimized by the vev s @xmath15 and is equal to zero at the minimum .    in mft at high density ( as we shall see ) , when chiral symmetry is restored , @xmath16 , @xmath17 , this term reduces to a constant energy density term equal to @xmath18 besides , due to chiral symmetry restoration the constituent mass of the quarks also vanishes , leaving free massless quarks .",
    "this reduced lagrangian for high density is no different from mit bag quark matter with @xmath19 this completes the identification of the bag pressure term in this model .",
    "it shows that bag pressure is automatically generated by chiral restoration and is controlled simply by the scalar coupling or equivalently the sigma mass .",
    "we first briefly describe the logical basis for the investigation of the qm ground states vis a vis the usual nuclear matter ground state at saturation density . here",
    "we follow farhi and jaffe @xcite .    1 .",
    "we fix coordinates by noting that sqm can be the true ground state only if its energy per baryon , @xmath20 , is lower than the lowest value found in nuclei , 930 mev for iron , as done by farhi and jaffe , @xcite .",
    "we calculate the 2 flavour quark matter ground states and fix a lower bound for the only free parameter in our lagrangian , the scalar coupling ; or equivalently , we get a lower bound on the chiral condensate pressure ( or bag pressure ) from the condition that the 2 flavour quark matter state must have higher @xmath20 than nuclear matter - otherwise nuclear matter would be unstable to conversion to the 2 flavour qm . as pointed out in @xcite",
    "this condition is that bulk 2 flavour quark matter must have @xmath21 mev .",
    "we calculate the sqm with the parameters established in 2 above and see if for sqm , @xmath20 is smaller than that given in 1 , above . if this is the case , and as @xmath20 increases monotonically with the scalar coupling ( or the chiral condensate pressure ) , we get an upper bound on the chiral condensate pressure ( or bag pressure ) , when @xmath20 crosses beyond 930 mev .",
    "sqm can then exist , as the true ground state , in this interval between the two bounds .",
    "we shall now consider in mean field theory the phases of 2 flavour quark matter in the @xmath22 chiral model above .",
    "we shall then extend the model to 3 flavours ( u , d , s ) to describe sqm .",
    "we now turn to the phase in which the pattern of symmetry breaking is such that the expectation values of the meson fields are uniform . at zero density",
    "they are just the vevs .",
    "@xmath23 for arbitrary density we allow the expectation value to change in magnitude , as it becomes a variational parameter that is determined by energy minimization at each density .",
    "@xmath24 such a pattern of symmetry breaking simply provides a constituent mass to the quark @xmath25 and the quarks are in plane wave states as opposed to the bound states in the nucleonic phase @xcite .",
    "the mean field description of this phase is simple .",
    "the energy density @xmath26 where @xmath27 and the degeneracy @xmath28 .",
    "we shall use @xmath12 as determined from fixing the nucleon mass in this model at 938 mev @xcite .",
    "the integral above runs up to the ` u ' and ` d ' fermi momenta .    for neutron matter ( without @xmath29 equilibrium ) we have the relations @xmath30 where @xmath31 is the baryon density . at any density the ground state follows from minimising the free energy w.r.t . @xmath32 .",
    "as shown in the figures of @xcite , this phase begins at zero @xmath31 , with @xmath33 , which then falls till chiral restoration occurs at some @xmath34 .",
    "after this , as density is increased the @xmath20 continues to drop and goes to a minimum and then starts rising corresponding to a massless quark fermi gas .    in the chirally restored phase",
    "the eos is very simple and parallels the mit bag description of @xcite @xmath35 the last term above is just the bag energy density , and @xmath36 this phase has two features , a chiral restoration at @xmath34 followed , with increasing density , by an absolute minimum in @xmath20 , at @xmath37    since @xmath20 decreases monotonically with density till the chiral restoration density , @xmath34 , and then continues to decrease till the minimum is reached at @xmath38 , this implies that the density regime till @xmath38 is unstable and has negative pressure .",
    "this has been recently conjectured @xcite as the density at which self - bound droplets of quarks form , which may be related to nucleons .",
    "further , since at this density chiral symmetry is restored , these ` nucleons ' will be like those in the mit bag model in which chiral symmetry is unbroken inside the nucleons .",
    "we would like to clarify this issue .    from the comparison of this phase with the nucleon and nucleonic ` phase ' arising from the same model ( see @xcite ) , it is clear that the nucleonic phase is always of lower energy than the uniform phase above , upto a density of roughly 3 times the nuclear density , which is above the chiral restoration density in the uniform phase .",
    "further , the minimum in the nucleonic phase occurs very much below the minimum in the uniform phase .",
    "the chiral restoration density in the uniform phase is thus not of any physical interest as matter will always be in the lower energy nucleonic phase and so the identification of nucleon as a quark droplet at the density at which the minimum occurs in the uniform phase is not viable . clearly , the nucleon is a quark soliton of mass m = 938 mev and falls at the zero density limit in the nucleonic phase .      here",
    "we shall consider another realization of the expectation value of @xmath39 and @xmath40 corresponding to pion condensation .",
    "this phenomenon was first considered in the context of nuclear matter .",
    "such a phenomenon also occurs with our quark based chiral @xmath3 model and was first considered at the mean field level by kutschera and broniowski in an important paper @xcite . working in the chiral limit they found that the pion condensed state has lower energy than the uniform symmetry breaking state ( phase 2 ) we have just considered for all density .",
    "this is expected , as the ansatz for the pc phase is more general than for phase 2 .",
    "the expectation values now carry a particular space dependence @xmath41 note , when @xmath42 goes to zero , we recover the uniform phase 2 .",
    "the dirac equation in this background is solved in @xcite and reduces to @xmath43 where @xmath44    the extra term has been recast in terms of the relativistic spin operator , @xmath45 .",
    "it is evident that if spin is parallel to @xmath46 and @xmath47 ( up quark ) this term is negative and if @xmath48 ( down quark ) it is positive . for spin antiparallel to @xmath49 the signs for @xmath50 and @xmath51 are reversed .",
    "the spectrum for the hamiltonian is the quasi particle spectrum and can be found to be @xmath52 the lower energy eigenvalue @xmath53 has spin along @xmath46 for @xmath54 , or has spin opposite to @xmath49 for @xmath55 .",
    "the higher energy eigenvalue @xmath56 has spin along @xmath49 and @xmath57 , or has spin opposite to @xmath58 and @xmath47 .    in this background",
    "the fermi sea in no longer degenerate in spin but gets polarized into the states above .",
    "the quasi particles are , however , states of isospin . we describe",
    "matter at a given fermi energy of u and d quarks set by their respective densities and by charge neutrality ( corresponding to say neutron like matter ) .",
    "first we fill up all the lower energy , @xmath59 , states and then we have a gap and start filling up the @xmath60 states till we get to @xmath61 , the fermi energy corresponding to a given density for each flavour .",
    "@xmath62    we can now write down the equation of state as in ref .  13 .",
    "it is found that the pc state is always lower in energy then the uniform phase 2 .",
    "for the explicit numbers and figures we refer the reader to @xcite .",
    "we briefly remark on some features of this phase :    1 .",
    "the 2 flavour pc state is quite different from the uniform phase : unlike the 2 flavour crqm states considered in @xcite , it can not be recovered from 3 flavour crqm by taking the strange quark mass to infinity .",
    "as we shall see in the next sections , this gives a new feature - a maximum strange current quark mass for sqm to be the true ground state .",
    "the reason that the pc phase has energy lower than the uniform @xmath39 condensate is perhaps best understood in the language of quarks and anti quarks . to make a condenste",
    "a quark and antiquark must make a bound state and condense .",
    "for a uniform @xmath39 condensate the @xmath63 and @xmath64 must have equal and opposite momentum .",
    "therefore , as the quark density goes up the system can only couple a quark with @xmath65 and a @xmath64 with the opposite momentum .",
    "this costs much energy so the condensate can only occur if @xmath66 is small , at low density . on the other hand , the pion condensed state is not uniform .",
    "so at finite density , if we take a quark with @xmath67 the @xmath68 can have momentum @xmath69 , which is a much smaller energy cost .",
    "3 .   since the pion condensate is a chirally broken phase , the chiral restoration shifts from very low density in the uniform phase to very high density : @xmath70 .",
    "this is a signature of this phase .",
    "4 .   since this phase is always lower in energy than the uniform phase we go directly from the nucleonic phase to the pc phase completely bypassing the uniform phase , and thus all the interesting features and conjectures for the uniform phase are never realized .",
    "another feature of this @xmath71 condensate is that since we have a spin isospin polarization we can get a net magnetic moment in the ground state .",
    "the extension of the above to 3 flavours or su(3 ) chiral symmetry needs some clarification .    the generalized dirac equation for the su(3 ) case is considerably more complicated and involves a singlet @xmath72 and an su(3 ) octet @xmath73 of scalar fields and a singlet @xmath74 and an su(3 ) octet @xmath75 of pseudoscalar fields , that interact with the quarks as shown in @xcite .",
    "@xmath76    in the chiral limit , the spontaneous symmetry breaking pattern is not unique .",
    "we choose the pattern in which the @xmath77 chiral symmetry breaks down to a vector su(3 ) . for the uniform case ,",
    "we have @xmath78 this gives a constituent mass @xmath79 for all ( u , d and s ) quarks .",
    "the explicit symmetry breaking strange quark mass term with mass @xmath80 , is then added to @xmath81 .",
    "the strange quark mass , @xmath82 , then turns out to be the sum of the constituent and explicit mass , @xmath83 .      for describing strange quark",
    "matter we use the 3 flavour pion condensed state .",
    "this is a more versatile state than the one used in @xcite ( 3 flavour crqm ) , the latter being in a subset of the former .",
    "next , we formulate the symmetry breaking in the presence of the pion condensate .",
    "this is given as follows : @xmath84 and all other fields have expectation value zero .",
    "this gives exactly the pc hamiltonian equation for the u , d sector and yields a simple mass relation above for the strange quark : @xmath85 ; when @xmath86 and @xmath87 we recover the chiral limit above .",
    "we may now simply add the 2 flavour pc results for the energy density and density derived above to the strange quark energy density which arises from the single particle relation , @xmath88    the strange quark energy density is given by baym @xcite , eq .",
    "( 8.20 ) @xmath89 where @xmath90 and @xmath91 ; @xmath92 is the fermi momentum for the strange quarks .",
    "the total energy density of the quarks for the 3 flavour pc is given by @xmath93 from the effective potential given in @xcite for the su(3 ) case , there is an extra factor of 3/2 that multiplies the last term .",
    "this can be absorbed , as we have done , by a redefinition : @xmath94 , where @xmath95 .",
    "we have the following general chemical potential relations for quark matter @xmath96 the charge neutrality condition , below , further reduces the number of independent chemical potentials to one .",
    "@xmath97 the baryon density is @xmath98 for matter in @xmath29 equilibrium we need to add the electron energy density to the quark energy density above @xmath99 the total energy density is @xmath100 the energy per baryon , @xmath101 , then follows .    for the pion condensed state , the ground state energy and the baryon density depend on the variational parameters , the order parameter or the expectation value , @xmath102 and the condensate momentum , @xmath103 . to define the free energy at a fixed baryon density",
    "then requires some care .",
    "however , we are only interested in the absolute mininmum of the energy per baryon , @xmath20 , for all density",
    ". we can then simply minimize @xmath20 with respect the variational parameters , @xmath104 and @xmath103 and the one independent chemical potential to get the absolute minimum .",
    "note that this is for a given a value of @xmath105",
    "the new window for sqm is established thus :    we maintain the minimum permissible limit on @xmath20 for 2 flavour quark matter to be 934 mev . since the pc is a lower energy state than the chirally restored qm ( crqm ) considered in ref .",
    "2 we find that the lower bound on @xmath106 goes up , closing the window on sqm .",
    "the results are given in table  [ table1 ] .",
    "this lower bound for 2 flavour pc is found to be @xmath107 whereas , for the case of 2 flavour crqm considered by farhi and jaffe , it was @xmath108    we then calculate the minimum @xmath20 for 3 flavour qm .",
    "for this we use our generalised pcsqm as the state .",
    "it is important to note that the rather particular 3 flavour crqm lies within its variational reach .",
    "this provides us with the upper bound on the bag pressure @xmath109 .    .",
    ".[table1 ] ground states with energy of 930 mev / nucleon for 3-flavour quark matter with 2-flavour pion - condensed state .",
    "@xmath110 is the assumed strange quark mass , @xmath111 stands for bag pressure , @xmath112 the u - quark chemical potential , @xmath113 the ratio of the density of strange quarks to that of u - quarks and @xmath114 is the expectation value of the @xmath3 field .",
    "these results are without 1-gluon exchange [ cols=\">,^,^,^ , > \" , ]     we briefly give a comparison with the results of the case without the 1 gluon exchange interaction . in our notation the results for ( a ) are given first ( without brackets ) and the results for ( b ) appear alongside in brackets .",
    "the lower bound for 2 flavour pc is found to be @xmath115 for ( a ) this is down , from the case without 1 gluon exchange , where it was 148 mev .",
    "this indicates that gluon exchange is repulsive , even with the constituent quark mass generated by the condensate , whereas for ( b ) it is up and the 1 gluon exchange is attractive .",
    "we note that for the case of 2 flavour crqm ( with gluon exchange ) considered by farhi and jaffe , we find @xmath116 is even more down , from the case without 1 gluon exchange , where it was 145 mev .",
    "this clearly shows that the effect of gluon exchange is more repulsive for this case as the quarks are massless as opposed to the pc case when they have a mass , @xmath117 .",
    "we note that our value , @xmath118  mev , is more than that given in the figure 1(c ) in @xcite .",
    "this is due to the difference in the way energy density and density are defined for us and in @xcite .",
    "they begin with the tp to order @xmath119 , derive a density which includes interaction to order @xmath119 , and use this density to define the energy density .",
    "the difference between our case and theirs is @xmath120 .",
    "the maximum upper bound on @xmath111 naturally occurs for the @xmath121 case @xmath122 interestingly , in this case the minimum in @xmath20 comes from a _",
    "new ground state _ and is genuinely different",
    ". it does not occur either in the 2 flavour pc state nor does it occur in the 3 flavour crqm state as given in farhi and jaffe , with @xmath123 , as was the case in the absence of 1 gluon interaction . in this case",
    "the mininmum is lower than either of the these states and comes from a true merger of the two ; it has a non zero value of , @xmath124  mev , and also a ratio of the strange quark density to the u quark density of @xmath125 .    for comparison for the 3 flavour crqm state of @xcite @xmath126",
    "we find the maximum allowed limit on @xmath110 , with gluon exchange included , for both ( a ) and ( b ) , moves down to @xmath127 for sqm to be the absolute ground state .",
    "we remark that the cases ( a ) and ( b ) show the same trends .",
    "the difference is that the allowed values of @xmath111 are shifted up in ( b ) .",
    "some of these results are summarized in fig .",
    "[ figure2 ] .",
    "we have found that the existence of a new and lower energy state of 2 flavour quark matter , the pion condensed state , has a significant effect on the window of opportunity for sqm to be the true ground state of matter .",
    "we work with an effective chiral lagrangian . unlike the mit bag case @xcite , where the bag pressure is a parameter , in our formulation it is the chiral condensate energy and is given in terms of the parameters of low energy phenomenology - the pion decay constant , @xmath2 , which is precisely known and the scalar coupling or the @xmath3 mass , which is rather poorly known .",
    "however , it is of interest that sqm is related to parameters of low energy phenomenology .",
    "it requires more detailed work to firm up this connection .",
    "furthermore , we have found a new and interesting constraint on the existence of sqm as the true ground state , that comes from the current mass of the strange quark .      1 .   without including 1 gluon exchange",
    "the new pc ground state limits the bounds on the bag pressure @xmath111 , allowing @xmath128 instead of the result of @xcite @xmath129 and cuts down the allowed pararmeter space of the explicit or current strange quark mass to @xmath130 2 .   with @xmath131 and including 1 gluon exchange the new pc ground state , with some simplifying approximations strongly limits the bounds on the bag pressure , @xmath111 , allowing @xmath132 instead of the result of @xcite : @xmath133 and it further cuts down the allowed pararmeter space of the explicit strange quark mass to @xmath127 this is a rather punishing constraint .",
    "these results are obtained in the 2 flavour chiral limit with some approximations and also assuming that all the bag pressure comes from the chiral condensate . adding a confinement pressure will raise the energy , @xmath20 , for sqm and may shrink the window further .",
    "we would like to thank w. broniowoski for sharing with us the program on the pion condensed state which is the mainstay of this paper .",
    "we genuinely thank judith mcgovern for her ever willing help with the intricacies su(3 ) chiral model and more .",
    "we thank bob jaffe for very prompt clarifications on the expressions in their paper , which is the benchmark for this one .",
    "we further thank mike birse and m. kutschera . vs",
    "thanks the raman research institute for its hospitality .    99 e. witten , phys . rev .",
    "d , 30 , 272 ( 1984 ) .",
    "e. farhi and r.l .",
    "jaffe , phys .",
    "d , 30 , 2379 ( 1984 ) . c. alcock and a. olinto , ann .",
    ", 38 , 161 ( 1988 ) . v. soni , mod .",
    "a , 11 , 331 ( 1996 ) , a. manohar and h. georgi , nucl .",
    "b , 234 , 203 ( 1984 ) s. kahana , g. ripka and v. soni , nucl .",
    "a , 415 , 351 ( 1984 ) , m.c .",
    "birse and m.k .",
    "banerjee , phys .",
    "lett . , 134b , 284 , ( 1984 )",
    ". v. soni , ` the nucleon and strongly interacting matter ' , invited talk at dae symposium in nuclear physics , bombay , dec 1992 and references therein . m.c .",
    "birse , soliton models in nuclear physics , progress in particle and nuclear physics , vol .",
    "25 , 1 ( 1991 ) , and references therein .",
    "see for example , r. johnson , n.w .",
    "park , j. schechter , v. soni and h. weigel , phys .",
    "d42 , 2998 ( 1990 ) , j. stern and g. clement , mod phys .",
    "lett , a3 , 1657 ( 1988 ) .",
    "see for example , j. stern and g. clement , phys .",
    "b , 264 , 426 ( 1991 ) , e.j .",
    "eichten , i. hinchcliffe and c. quigg , fermilab - pub 91/272 - t. d. diakonov , v. petrov , p. pobylitsa , m. polyakov and c. weiss , nucl .",
    "b , 480 , 341 ( 1996 ) , phys . rev .",
    "d , 56 , 4069 ( 1997 ) .",
    "a. gocksch , phys .",
    "67 , 1701 ( 1991 ) . v. soni , phys .",
    ", 152b , 231 ( 1985 ) . m. kutschera , w. broniowski and a. kotlorz , nucl .",
    "a , 516 566 ( 1990 ) . m. alford , k. rajgopal and f. wilczek , phys .",
    "lett b , 422 , 247 ( 1998 ) , nucl .",
    "b , 537 , 443 ( 1999 ) .",
    "j.a . mcgovern and m.c .",
    "birse , nucl .",
    "a , 506 , 367 ( 1990 ) . g. baym and s. chin , phys .",
    ", 62b , 241 ( 1976 ) , g. baym in nordita lectures , ` neutron stars and the properties of matter at high density ' , ( 1977 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> if strange quark matter is the true ground state of matter , it must have lower energy than nuclear matter . simultaneously , two - flavour quark matter must have higher energy than nuclear matter , for otherwise the latter would convert to the former . </S>",
    "<S> we show , using an effective chiral lagrangian , that the existence of a new lower energy ground state for two - flavour quark matter , the pion condensate , shrinks the window for strange quark matter to be the ground state of matter and sets new limits on the current strange quark mass . </S>"
  ]
}