{
  "article_text": [
    "diverse nonperturbative phenomena characterize the infrared regime of qcd .",
    "the basic degrees of freedom in terms of which the theory is formulated , quarks and gluons , are confined into color singlet hadrons .",
    "chiral symmetry is realized in the goldstone mode , which decisively influences low - energy hadronic physics .",
    "the @xmath1 part of the flavor symmetry on the other hand is affected by an anomaly @xcite which is tied to the topological properties of the yang - mills fields , and manifests itself e.g. in the mass of the corresponding flavor singlet pseudoscalar @xmath2 meson @xcite .",
    "an in principle exact theoretical tool allowing to investigate all these phenomena is available , namely lattice gauge theory .",
    "nevertheless , it is important to concomitantly develop simplified models of the infrared sector , in order to facilitate exploratory forays into problem areas which have proven difficult to access by conventional lattice theory e.g. due to the numerical effort implied .",
    "simplification can be achieved by restricting the set of degrees of freedom and concentrating on selected collective variables .",
    "the choice of variables should be guided on the one hand by the question whether one can expect the corresponding effective dynamics to be well represented by a simple , e.g. weakly interacting , ansatz ; on the other hand , it should be possible to tie the collective degrees of freedom to the nonperturbative phenomena highlighted above in a straightforward fashion .",
    "an important example of such an approach is the instanton liquid model @xcite,@xcite .",
    "instantons are chosen as collective degrees of freedom , which by construction introduces the topological properties of the yang - mills fields into the model description . by virtue of the atiyah - singer index theorem ,",
    "the corresponding topological winding number implies the existence of zero modes of the dirac operator ; this zero mode spectrum is perturbed by instanton interactions into a band of near - zero modes , which by the casher - banks formula @xcite is related to a chiral condensate . in this manner ,",
    "instanton models are very successful at also describing the spontaneous breaking of chiral symmetry and the associated low - energy hadronic phenomena . on the other hand ,",
    "instanton models have hitherto failed to provide for confinement @xcite .",
    "presumably , a strongly interacting dynamics with intricate instanton correlations would be necessary to achieve the latter .",
    "this example highlights that , in general , there is a conflict between the different aims to be taken into account in formulating a model for infrared qcd dynamics . also in models which have been proposed to explain confinement , e.g. the dual superconductor @xcite,@xcite , the connection to topological properties conversely has remained tenuous ;",
    "at most , correlations have been empirically detected @xcite between , on the one hand , the abelian monopole degrees of freedom of the dual superconductor , and , on the other hand , instantons .    a possible exception which recently has shown promise of transcending these difficulties is the so - called center vortex picture , which originally was also designed to explain confinement @xcite-@xcite .",
    "recent progress in the understanding of this picture @xcite-@xcite has , among other developments , yielded insight into the manner in which topological properties are encoded in the vortex degrees of freedom @xcite,@xcite .",
    "also first evidence has been gathered that center vortices indeed subsume gauge field topology @xcite ; namely , an ensemble of yang - mills configurations , modified such as to remove all vortices from each configuration , was found to be concentrated on the trivial topological sector .    in a companion paper to the present work @xcite , a simple model dynamics for @xmath0 center vortices was introduced , based on a representation of vortex world - sheets as random surfaces .",
    "the reader who wishes to consult a more detailed introduction to the center vortex picture in general , and to the physics of the aforementioned model in particular , is referred to this companion paper .",
    "the model was treated in @xcite on a hypercubic lattice , the random surfaces being composed of elementary plaquettes on the lattice , and it was shown to reproduce the confinement phenomenology of yang - mills theory . while it is not trivial that a simple random surface dynamics is able to qualitatively reproduce the confinement features ( including the finite - temperature deconfinement transition ) , it should be noted that the quantitative predictive power of the model was not tested very stringently in @xcite .",
    "the confinement properties essentially served to fix the parameters of the model ; merely a prediction of the spatial string tension in the deconfined phase was possible , which turned out to be surprisingly accurate .    in the present paper , this same model , fitted to the confinement properties , will be used to evaluate the topological susceptibility . on the one hand",
    ", this represents a more solid test of the predictive power of the model . on the other hand , from a physical point of view , the result will provide a further piece of quantitative evidence supporting the conjecture that a picture based on center vortex collective degrees of freedom indeed is able to comprehensively and consistently capture the entire spectrum of nonperturbative effects characterizing the infrared regime of yang - mills theory .",
    "in order to make the aforementioned test possible , it is first necessary to give a workable definition of the pontryagin index for @xmath0 vortex world - surfaces composed of plaquettes on a hypercubic lattice .",
    "this construction can be based on the result for general center vortices in the continuum , discussed in detail in @xcite , which can be summarized as follows : the pontryagin index @xmath3 of an @xmath0 center vortex world - surface configuration @xmath4 is given , up to a multiplicative constant , in terms of its oriented self - intersection number , @xmath5 where @xmath6 denotes a parametrization of the two - dimensional surface @xmath4 in four space - time dimensions , i.e. for any two - vector @xmath7 from a two - dimensional parameter space , the four - vector @xmath8 gives the corresponding point on the vortex surface in space - time .",
    "this parametrization furthermore implies an infinitesimal surface element @xmath9 on the vortex surface .",
    "the normalization of ( [ yidres ] ) is such that a self - intersection point in the usual sense generates a contribution @xmath10 to the @xmath0 pontryagin index , where the sign depends on the relative orientation of the two intersecting surface segments @xcite .",
    "it should be noted , however , that ( [ yidres ] ) not only includes contributions from intersection points in the usual sense , but from all singular points of a surface configuration ; singular points in this more general sense are all points at which the tangent vectors to the surface span the entire four space - time dimensions .",
    "this result can be understood more clearly by recalling how it comes about physically .",
    "a vortex surface is associated with a field strength @xmath11 localized on the vortex , where the space - time directions labeled by @xmath12 and @xmath13 are the directions which are locally orthogonal to the surface .",
    "therefore , a nonzero topological density @xmath14 is generated precisely at singular points in the above general sense .",
    "when the surface is represented by a set of plaquettes on a lattice , such points can occur at any site of the lattice .",
    "note that for infinitely thin vortices , i.e. true two - dimensional surfaces , the field strength @xmath11 has a singular space - time dependence .",
    "nevertheless , the integral over the topological density is regular @xcite .",
    "one can e.g. check this by considering an intersection between two thickened vortices with a regular transverse profile and a corresponding regular field strength .",
    "the resulting topological charge is independent of the profile ( as it should be for a topological quantity ) and the idealized limit of an infinitely thin vortex surface is therefore smooth and finite .    note also that , via the sign of @xmath11 , the orientation of the surface enters the pontryagin index ; this is a crucial new feature compared with the evaluation of wilson loops @xcite .",
    "wilson loops are insensitive to the orientation of vortex surfaces ; by contrast , to determine the pontryagin index , one needs to give not only the location of the vortex surfaces , but also their orientation .",
    "this is manifest in ( [ yidres ] ) in view of the appearance of the oriented self - intersection number .",
    "furthermore , globally oriented surface configurations have vanishing self - intersection number , and thus are associated with vanishing pontryagin index ; non - vanishing pontryagin index requires that the surfaces consist of patches of alternating orientation .",
    "the edges of such patches can be associated with monopole loops in abelian projections of the gauge field representing the vortex configuration @xcite .    in view of this , the following discussion of the lattice implementation of ( [ yidres ] ) will have to be based on more specific lattice vortex configurations than the treatment of confinement properties @xcite ; namely , it will be necessary to additionally introduce the notion of an orientation for the lattice plaquettes making up the lattice vortex surfaces .",
    "a suitable convention can be specified as follows .",
    "an orientation is associated with a plaquette by specifying a sense of curl , i.e. by specifying one of two possible cyclical orderings of the links bounding the plaquette .",
    "formally , this can be implemented by associating a lattice plaquette extending from the lattice site given by the four - vector @xmath15 into the positive @xmath12 and @xmath13 directions with a value , where always @xmath16 , are unordered sets , i.e. there is no distinction between @xmath17 and @xmath18 . ] @xmath19 , just as in the companion paper @xcite , with a slight modification : if the plaquette is not part of a vortex surface , @xmath20 .",
    "otherwise , @xmath21 if the curl on the plaquette is given by the ordering of links @xmath22 , whereas @xmath23 for the opposite curl . as an illustrative example , the following represents an oriented vortex in the shape of a three - dimensional elementary cube surface extending into the @xmath24 and @xmath25 directions : @xmath26 whether a link shared by two vortex plaquettes carries a monopole line can be decided by considering in which direction that link is pursued in the two link orderings associated with the two plaquette orientations . if the two directions are the same , there is a monopole line ; if the two direction are opposed , the associated magnetic flux cancels .    before proceeding to discuss how the pontryagin index of lattice surfaces can be defined ,",
    "a note is in order concerning how ensembles of such surfaces , containing all the necessary information , can be generated .",
    "if the vortex surfaces are extracted from lattice yang - mills configurations , e.g. via the maximal center gauge @xcite,@xcite,@xcite then in view of the above discussion , one needs to additionally determine the locations of abelian monopole lines on the vortex surfaces .",
    "then , by associating an arbitrary orientation with some initial vortex plaquette on the dual lattice ( this choice does not influence the pontryagin index ) , one can recursively determine the orientations of all other ( connected ) vortex plaquettes by taking into account that vortex surface orientation is inverted precisely at monopole lines .",
    "alternatively , if the vortex configurations are supplied by a random surface model @xcite , one additionally needs to generate orientations for the plaquettes making up the random surfaces ; the monopole density implied by orientation changes on the surfaces can be viewed as an additional free parameter of such a model .",
    "this issue will be discussed in detail in section [ mondiss ] .",
    "given such oriented vortex surface configurations on a space - time lattice , the question of evaluating their self - intersection number may at first sight seem straightforward .",
    "in practice , however , one reencounters many of the problems which also plague the determination of the pontryagin index from full lattice yang - mills configurations .",
    "surfaces made up of plaquettes on a lattice merely provide coarse - grained representations of continuum surfaces .",
    "accordingly , some of their features contain ambiguities as to their precise continuum interpretation .",
    "for one , lattice surfaces in general intersect along whole intersection lines , as opposed to the continuum , where they intersect at points ( up to a set of configurations of measure zero ) .",
    "likewise , on the lattice , monopole lines hit singular points of the surfaces with a finite probability ; by contrast , in the continuum , they pass by singular points at a distance ( again , up to a set of configurations of measure zero , if one assumes monopoles to be randomly distributed on vortex surfaces , as will be done in the following ) .",
    "some more detailed remarks on the physical meaning of the monopole trajectories will be made in section [ toupsec ] .",
    "the sections subsequent to the present one discuss in detail how the aforementioned ambiguities in the lattice configurations can be given a meaningful and consistent resolution , thus yielding a workable definition of the pontryagin index associated with lattice surfaces .",
    "the resulting algorithm is summarized again in section [ algsum ] .",
    "surfaces made up of plaquettes on a hypercubic lattice generically intersect not at isolated points like in the continuum , but along whole lines consisting of lattice links .",
    "along such an intersection line , even the question which plaquettes belong to which surface is at best a nonlocal question and , in general , can not be settled unambiguously .",
    "this should be contrasted with intersection points , which occur at lattice sites ; at such points , there is no ambiguity in identifying disjoint surfaces .",
    "this ambiguity results from looking at the vortex surfaces on too coarse a scale ; if one could attain the continuum limit , one would of course expect two - dimensional surfaces in four dimensions generically to intersect at points . thus , to resolve the meaning of intersection lines , it is necessary to specify a new surface configuration on a finer lattice , from which the original configuration results by coarse - graining .",
    "this means that , on the finer lattice , the surfaces may deviate from the original surfaces by distances up to one - half of the spacing of the original lattice .",
    "this freedom can be used to construct the new configuration on the finer lattice in such a way that intersection lines are eliminated .    from the physics point of view , such a procedure is consistent .",
    "center vortices represent infrared degrees of freedom of yang - mills theory , and are associated with a certain inherent thickness ; it is not meaningful to give their location to a higher accuracy than this thickness . in this sense ,",
    "the locations of the thin vortex surfaces furnished e.g. by center projection in yang - mills theory only carry physical meaning up to arbitrary ultraviolet fluctuations within the thick profile of the physical vortex they represent @xcite .",
    "therefore , slight deformations of the thin vortex surfaces should not change the infrared physical content of a configuration .    to implement the above idea in practice , it is useful to introduce the notion of an elementary cube transformation .",
    "such a transformation , carried out on an elementary three - dimensional cube of the lattice , means transforming @xmath27 for all 6 plaquettes making up the surface of the three - dimensional lattice cube in question , where @xmath28 describes an oriented vortex in the shape of that cube surface , such as given in ( [ elmcub ] ) .",
    "note that this transformation preserves the closedness of vortex surfaces ; furthermore , this is precisely the operation carried out in an elementary monte carlo update of a vortex configuration in the random vortex model @xcite , except that there , in general , @xmath28 does not need to be oriented . in the present context , the specification that @xmath28 be oriented has to do with the fact that it will be desirable to preserve the monopole content of a configuration as much as possible in the course of a transformation .    in practice ,",
    "the ambiguities in lattice surface configurations implied by intersection lines are now resolved as follows : transfer the original surface configuration onto a lattice with @xmath29 of the original lattice spacing . identify and make a list of all links which are part of intersection lines ; these are all those links to which more than two vortex plaquettes are attached . subsequently ,",
    "sweep once through the lattice , updating the configuration by applying elementary cube transformations to all cubes containing links from the aforementioned list .",
    "accept an update if it lowers the total number of intersection line links ; it has furthermore proven to be efficient to also accept with probability @xmath30 transformations which leave the number of intersection line links unchanged .",
    "lastly , the orientation of the corresponding cube surface @xmath31 should be chosen such as to least change the number of links carrying monopoles .",
    "note that the new surfaces deviate from the original ones at most by @xmath29 of the original lattice spacing , in accordance with the requirements formulated further above .    in practice , it has proven sufficient to carry out this procedure twice , i.e. one ends up with a lattice with @xmath32 the spacing of the original lattice .",
    "already after the first step , residual intersection lines are so sparse that the second step can be carried out on local sublattices ; in this way , it is easily possible to treat @xmath33 lattices ( at the initial lattice spacing ) without exceeding the memory of a workstation .",
    "typically , this procedure increases the vortex density as well as the monopole density by 15% as compared with the original configuration , which can be taken as an indication of the uncertainty introduced by the procedure into measurements of topological properties .",
    "the author has furthermore investigated alternative procedures such as immediately going to a lattice with @xmath32 the lattice spacing and applying several sweeps of elementary cube transformations .",
    "these alternative procedures all distorted the vortex and monopole densities more strongly .",
    "the procedure described in the previous section furnishes surface configurations containing the following types of singular points which potentially contribute to the self - intersection number and , consequently , to the pontryagin index :    * touching points of two surface segments * intersection points * other singular points ( writhing points )    the latter class of singular points is distinguished from the former two as follows : at intersection points and touching points , two distinct surface segments share one point , but one can not reach one surface segment from the other by proceeding along plaquettes which share a link . writhing points on the other hand",
    "are characterized precisely by the opposite ; all plaquettes attached to such a point can be connected by proceeding along plaquettes which share a link . in this sense , there is only one surface segment at such a singular point , which writhes such that a contribution to the self - intersection number is generated .",
    "an explicit example of a writhing point is depicted in fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] below .",
    "also , intersection points have a very specific form .",
    "they consist of all four plaquettes attached to the point in question and extending into a particular pair of space - time directions , together with all four plaquettes attached to the point and extending into the other pair of space - time directions .",
    "all other configurations at which two distinct surface segments meet at one point constitute touching points .",
    "all of the contributions mentioned above happen at sites of the lattice , which in general can also be visited by monopole lines .",
    "this represents an additional ambiguity which needs to be resolved in a manner similar to the intersection lines in the previous section .",
    "as before , in the continuum limit , monopole lines will generically not precisely hit the singular points of the vortex surfaces mentioned above , but pass them by at some distance which can not be resolved as long as the lattice spacing is finite .",
    "thus , a probabilistic procedure analogous to the one for intersection lines is necessary , and will be specified in detail further below for each type of singular point",
    ".      the following discussion will repeatedly refer to the configuration depicted in fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] , which is helpful in illustrating the interplay of intersection points and writhing points , and thus aids in establishing a viable definition of the self - intersection number for lattice configurations .",
    "= 8.5 cm    the surface in fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] is closed , orientable , has one genuine self - intersection point ( precisely at the center of the configuration ) , and is devoid of intersection lines .",
    "additionally , it has writhing points , at @xmath34 and @xmath35 in fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] , as well as at @xmath36 at the front and back edges of the configuration ( from the viewer s perspective ) .",
    "the fact that the surface is orientable implies that , when in fact oriented , i.e. in the absence of monopole lines , it can be represented by a gauge field @xcite which is nonzero only on a compact region of space - time ( namely a three - dimensional volume of which the depicted surface is the boundary ) .",
    "this implies that the existence of this configuration does not depend on any special boundary conditions induced by the underlying space - time manifold and it therefore also exists e.g. on a four - dimensional sphere . on the latter ,",
    "the pontryagin index is integer - valued . at first sight , if one naively considered only the lone genuine intersection point to contribute to the oriented self - intersection number , one would have a contradiction , since each intersection point gives a contribution of modulus @xmath30 to the pontryagin index @xcite .",
    "this underscores the importance of also taking into account the writhing points .",
    "a more complete definition of the pontryagin index can be constructed as follows : taking eq .",
    "( [ yidres ] ) literally , a certain unit @xmath37 of topological charge should be associated with every pair of plaquettes which share a site and are completely orthogonal to one another , i.e. their combined tangent vectors span four dimensions . in terms of the plaquettes attached to a site @xmath15 ,",
    "the topological charge @xmath38 generated at that site is @xmath39 where , for each pair of space - time directions , the indices @xmath40 label the four different plaquettes touching the site @xmath15 and extending into those directions .",
    "the prefactor @xmath30 stems from the fact that the sums in ( [ locind ] ) count every pair of mutually orthogonal plaquettes twice .",
    "furthermore , the magnitude of @xmath37 must be given by @xmath41 in order to be consistent with the fact that a genuine intersection point of two oriented surface segments yields @xmath42 , while it on the other hand is known to generate a contribution of @xmath43 to the pontryagin index @xcite .",
    "the sign associated with each contribution is determined by the relative orientation of the two plaquettes under consideration , as specified in ( [ locind ] ) .",
    "the total pontryagin index @xmath3 is the sum @xmath44 however , one must exercise some care in applying this prescription .",
    "for one , it is not clear what it means for a monopole line to precisely coincide with a singular point ; as mentioned above , in the continuum , monopole lines will generically not precisely hit the singular points of the vortex surfaces , but pass them by at some distance which can not be resolved at finite lattice spacing .",
    "therefore , monopole lines on the lattice which happen to coincide with singular points must be deformed such as to circumscribe the point before applying eq .",
    "( [ locind ] ) .",
    "there is no information contained in the configurations which would tell which way to deform the monopole lines , and one is therefore forced again to resort to a random deformation , similar to the case of the intersection lines in section [ remil ] .    in practice , this can be realized locally at , and independently for , each site .",
    "make a copy of the @xmath45 lattice plaquettes attached to the site in question and carry out the following algorithm on this copy : find an initial plaquette which is part of a vortex surface , and proceed to find a further such plaquette sharing a link with the previous one .",
    "invert its orientation if the aforementioned shared link carries a monopole line .",
    "iterate this procedure until the initial plaquette is reached again .",
    "note that up to two independent surface segments can appear , i.e. surface segments which share nothing but the lattice site under consideration ; then , the procedure described above must be carried out independently for both surfaces .",
    "the result of these plaquette reorientations is that no monopole lines reach the singular point under consideration ; to this reoriented set of plaquettes one can now apply eq .",
    "( [ locind ] ) and thus arrive at the contribution of the site in question to the pontryagin index .    note that the choice of monopole line deformation above is essentially made when finding the initial plaquette at random .",
    "adopting its orientation without change means deforming the monopole line such that it does not run across that initial plaquette .",
    "there is actually less ambiguity associated with this reorientation procedure than would first appear . in the case of writhing points ,",
    "the resulting contribution to the pontryagin index does not depend on the choice of monopole line deformation .",
    "this is due to the fact that a monopole loop encircling a writhing point implies inverting the orientations of all plaquettes attached to the point , since they are all connected via links . in other words , there are no two distinct surface segments which can have independent orientations , but there is only one surface segment . as a result , all pairs of orthogonal plaquettes retain their relative orientation , i.e. in eq .",
    "( [ locind ] ) both factors @xmath46 change their sign , and the pontryagin index is unchanged . in the case of intersection points , on the other hand ,",
    "the choice of deformation does matter , and in practice is determined at random by the reorientation procedure described above .",
    "the discussion in the previous paragraphs also clarifies why eq .",
    "( [ locind ] ) could not have been naively applied already to the initial vortex configurations before the intersection line removal procedure of section [ remil ] . in the presence of intersection lines ,",
    "the above procedure of reorienting plaquettes at a singular point such as to remove monopole links becomes ambiguous and nonlocal .",
    "the ambiguity results from the fact that intersection lines imply that there are links to which more than two plaquettes are attached .",
    "therefore , when proceeding from plaquette to plaquette in the course of the reorientation procedure , there is an ambiguous choice with which plaquette to continue whenever an intersection line is reached .",
    "naively , one may now think of simply making a random choice as in the case of other ambiguities before ; however , one is in general not free to choose in this case .",
    "this is due to the fact that such a choice implies specifying which plaquettes belong to which surface at the intersection line .",
    "however , one then must stick to this choice all the way along the intersection line .",
    "at best , therefore , the procedure becomes nonlocal and thus unmanageable in practice . at worst",
    ", one may find at the opposite end of the intersection line that the choice was inconsistent , because there are certain classes of intersection line ends which do in fact imply an unambiguous partitioning of the plaquettes into separate surfaces .",
    "this discussion of the conditions under which eq .",
    "( [ locind ] ) can lead to a sensible definition of the pontryagin index is corroborated by the result one now obtains for the winding number of the configuration depicted in fig .",
    "if globally oriented , i.e. in the absence of monopole lines , one should obtain vanishing pontryagin index @xcite .",
    "one can verify that this is indeed the case .",
    "furthermore , if one additionally allows monopole loops on the surface , one obtains integer pontryagin index .",
    "this is straightforward to understand . as explained above",
    ", monopole loops encircling writhing points do not change the contribution to the pontryagin index generated by the point in question , since the orientations of all participating plaquettes are simultaneously inverted . on the other hand ,",
    "monopole loops in general will change the sign of the contribution from the intersection point , e.g. a monopole loop located on one of the intersecting surface segments and encircling the intersection point at a small distance .",
    "since the contribution from the intersection point has modulus @xmath30 , the net change in the pontryagin index is integer .",
    "this integer result is nontrivial in view of the fact that the magnitudes of the contributions from the writhing points in this configuration are as small as @xmath47 .",
    "one can verify that the correct quantization of topological charge does not persist if one allows monopole lines to touch the singular points .",
    "also , by considering sample configurations containing intersection lines , one finds that the quantization properties of the topological charge are not preserved if one naively applies eq .",
    "( [ locind ] ) , even in the absence of monopole lines .",
    "this again underscores the need for the probabilistic resolution of the intersection line and monopole line ambiguities described further above , before a consistent definition of the lattice surface pontryagin index in terms of eq .",
    "( [ locind ] ) can be arrived at .",
    "the procedure described in the previous section accounts for the contributions from intersection points and writhing points on a unified footing .",
    "some more attention is necessary with regard to touching points .",
    "if one naively treats touching points in the same way , they always give a vanishing contribution to the pontryagin index ( as long as monopole lines have been deformed away from the touching points ) . however , it is precisely in the latter caveat that a potential ambiguity lies , which calls for a more detailed discussion .",
    "the following considerations will lead to the conclusion that , even under a less naive point of view , touching points should indeed always be discarded in the calculation of the lattice surface pontryagin index . for completeness",
    ", however , this point of view is presented here .    in the continuum ,",
    "the weight of truly touching configurations is of measure zero ; instead , the following three continuum cases will be described by a lattice touching point : the surfaces may intersect at two neighboring points , the surfaces may not intersect at all , or there is only one surface , exhibiting a thin bottleneck . again , as long as the lattice spacing is finite , the configurations are too coarse - grained to allow to determine which possibility is realized ; this represents an ambiguity in how surface touchings on a lattice are to be interpreted .",
    "as long as no monopole line is present at the same lattice site , the interpretation of the touching point is immaterial : the contribution to the pontryagin index always vanishes , even in the case of a double intersection , since the two intersection points occur with opposite relative orientation of the surfaces @xcite .",
    "the situation changes , however , if simultaneously a monopole line traverses the same region .",
    "_ if _ the touching point is interpreted as a double intersection ( the interpretation would again have to be probabilistic ) _ and if _ the monopole line is interpreted as running between the two intersection points ( again with a certain probability ) , then the two contributions of modulus @xmath30 to the pontryagin index from the two intersection points do not cancel , but add , changing the index by an integer @xcite .    in order to discuss whether this is a meaningful interpretation ,",
    "it is necessary to return to the underlying physical picture @xcite . the vortex surface collective degrees of freedom treated here are meant to represent the infrared information contained in thick physical center vortices , as already mentioned further above . to specify that such a vortex carries flux corresponding to a center element of the gauge group is a statement about the magnitude of the associated gauge field color vector , but not about its direction in color space .",
    "as one travels along a physical thick vortex , the associated gauge field will in general smoothly rotate in color space . in concentrating on the vortex surfaces treated here , consisting of patches of alternating orientation",
    ", one has idealized the vortices in two ways : for one , the flux of the physical vortex has been concentrated on thin two - dimensional surfaces .",
    "furthermore , however , the initially smooth space - time dependence of the associated color vector has been replaced by discrete jumps , allowing the color vector to only point into the positive and negative cartan direction(s ) in color space , as encoded in the surface orientation .",
    "this can be interpreted in terms of casting the initial physical vortex into an abelian gauge and performing abelian projection .    in view of this physical picture ,",
    "it becomes clear that the interpretation presented above , generating additional contributions to the pontryagin index from surface touching points , overstretches the applicability of the idealized vortex surface degrees of freedom discussed here",
    ". if a vortex surface touching point is interpreted as a double intersection , then the two intersection points are very close together compared with the typical length scales of the theory on which color vectors vary .",
    "therefore , the color orientations of the participating physical vortex surfaces should never be considered to vary appreciably between the two intersection points ; this means that monopole lines should always be deformed such as to circumscribe touching points . otherwise , one accords their specific space - time location more physical significance than is appropriate for infrared effective degrees of freedom .",
    "the monopole lines are merely intended to encode the variation of vortex color vectors on infrared length scales .    as a result of this physical interpretation , touching points",
    "should indeed be simply discarded in the calculation of the lattice surface pontryagin index .",
    "the definition of the lattice surface pontryagin index constructed above can be briefly summarized as follows :    * transfer the given lattice surface configuration onto a lattice of @xmath29 the lattice spacing and sweep once through the lattice , applying elementary cube transformations such as to remove intersection lines , while conserving the number of monopole lines as much as possible .",
    "carry out this whole procedure twice .",
    "* for each lattice site @xmath15 , make a copy of all attached plaquettes , and transform the copy as follows . after finding an initial plaquette which is part of a vortex , recursively reorient further vortex plaquettes sharing links with previously considered ones , such as to remove any monopole lines from the shared links . do this for all independent surface segments present . using the transformed plaquettes ,",
    "obtain the contribution @xmath38 to the pontryagin index from the site @xmath15 in question via eq .",
    "( [ locind ] ) , i.e. @xmath48 * the total pontryagin index is the sum @xmath49 .    despite the formal similarity of the expression for @xmath3 with the so - called field theoretical discretization of the pontryagin index in lattice yang - mills theory @xcite",
    ", a fundamental difference must be emphasized .",
    "the latter definition approximates the field strength by lattice yang - mills plaquettes and thus contains a discretization error as long as the lattice spacing is finite ; eq .",
    "( [ locind ] ) by contrast _ contains no such discretization error_. while the vortex surfaces are composed of elementary squares , they can trivially be embedded into a space - time continuum , and the above definition then already represents the true continuum pontryagin index associated with the vortex configuration .",
    "thus , the algorithm given above is conceptually more akin to the so - called geometrical definition of the pontryagin index @xcite .",
    "also there , coarse - graining ambiguities in the lattice configurations have to be resolved , before then applying an in turn exact prescription of evaluating the pontryagin index .    applying this procedure to general surface configurations on a hypercubic lattice , i.e. a space - time torus ,",
    "one obtains a pontryagin index quantized in half - integer units .",
    "this is exactly as it should be @xcite , in contrast e.g. to a space - time sphere , on which the pontryagin index must be an integer . to further corroborate the significance of this result",
    ", the author has empirically considered some surface configurations with pontryagin index @xmath30 in detail .",
    "all of them turned out to be non - orientable , meaning that they necessarily contain monopole loops , and therefore nontrivial gauge fields at space - time infinity .",
    "conversely , if one formally removes the monopoles and introduces double vortex surfaces ( which are equivalent to dirac string world - sheets @xcite ) spanning areas bounded by the monopole loops , then the pontryagin index again becomes an integer . in terms of the underlying gauge fields",
    ", this operation corresponds to a gauge transformation up to singularities at space - time infinity , the neglection of which is presumably equivalent to switching twist sectors on the torus @xcite .",
    "accordingly , it seems plausible to expect that certain classes of non - orientable vortex surfaces do not exist e.g. on a space - time sphere in the sense that one can not construct gauge field representations for them which fulfill viable space - time boundary conditions .",
    "these observations further corroborate the consistency of the present construction of the lattice surface pontryagin index .",
    "it should be noted that the vortex ensembles extracted from yang - mills theory via center projection and abelian projection ( to locate the monopoles ) in general contain all twist sectors , even if the original full yang - mills ensemble was constrained to a particular sector .",
    "this can happen due to the fact that the projection procedures truncate gauge - invariant information , including in general the torus twist .",
    "also in this respect , the vortex formulation of the topological winding number has similar problems as e.g. standard cooling techniques , in which instantons can `` fall through the lattice '' , modifying the detected topological content .",
    "in the following , measurements of the topological susceptibility in the framework of the random vortex model of infrared yang - mills theory will be presented .",
    "this model was defined in @xcite on the basis of the unoriented plaquette degrees of freedom @xmath50 by the partition function @xmath51   \\exp ( -s [ \\ , | p_n^{\\ { \\mu , \\nu \\ } } | ] ) \\label{partit}\\ ] ] with the constraint @xmath52 & = & \\prod_{n } \\prod_{\\mu } \\delta_{l_{n}^{\\mu } \\bmod 2 , 0 } \\\\ l_{n}^{\\mu } & = & \\sum_{\\nu \\atop \\nu \\neq \\mu } \\left (    enforcing closedness of the vortex surfaces by constraining the number @xmath53 of vortex plaquettes attached to the link extending from the lattice site @xmath15 in @xmath12 direction to be even , for any @xmath15 and @xmath12 .",
    "this constraint is conveniently enforced in monte carlo simulations by allowing only updates via elementary cube transformations , cf .",
    "section [ remil ] .",
    "the action penalizes curvature in the surfaces yang - mills theory was achieved by choosing the corresponding coupling constant to vanish . ] by considering , for every link extending from the lattice site @xmath15 in @xmath12 direction , all pairs of attached plaquettes whose two members do not lie in the same plane , and , if both members are part of a vortex , associating this with an action increment @xmath54 : @xmath55 the confinement properties of the @xmath0 yang - mills ensemble are best reproduced by the choice @xmath56 , cf .",
    "@xcite . this to a large extent fixes the characteristics of the random surface ensemble .",
    "however , as is manifest in the above definition by the fact that the model is formulated in terms of the unoriented variables @xmath57 , the orientations of the surfaces remain undetermined ; this is simply a consequence of the fact that wilson loops , which encode the confinement properties , do not depend on them . by constrast , the topological properties",
    "can only be evaluated by taking the surface orientation into account .",
    "one thus needs to additionally generate orientations for the plaquettes describing the vortex configurations which make up the ensemble .    in practice , this was achieved by first assigning random orientations to the plaquettes of any given configuration from the ensemble ( [ partit ] ) ; subsequently , monte carlo sweeps were performed through the configuration in which plaquette orientations were flipped according to a bias related to the monopole number on the links bounding the plaquette in question . in this way",
    ", different monopole densities can be generated on the given vortex surfaces .",
    "note that this density can only be varied within certain bounds . on the one hand",
    ", the non - orientability of the surfaces implies a certain irreducible monopole density ; on the other hand , the lattice spacing also provides an upper bound on the density of monopoles .    at zero temperature ,",
    "the above procedure allowed to study monopole line densities in space - time within the range , measured in @xcite , to @xmath58 .",
    "] @xmath59 for comparison , the zero - temperature monopole line density measured in full @xmath0 yang - mills theory in the maximal abelian gauge @xcite amounts to @xmath60 .",
    "this latter value should certainly be regarded as too high for the purposes of the random surface ensemble , for the same reasons as the center projection vortex density in yang - mills theory is higher than the model vortex density , by about a factor two .",
    "this difference , discussed extensively in @xcite , is due to spurious ultraviolet fluctuations in the center projection vortices detected from the yang - mills ensemble .",
    "since monopole loops are constrained to lie on vortex surfaces , their density likewise should be reduced by at least a similar factor . indeed , the magnitude of @xmath61 is within the upper bound in ( [ monrho ] )",
    ".    the random surface ensemble can also be studied at finite temperatures @xcite by varying the extension of the lattice universe in the euclidean time direction , this extension being identified with the inverse temperature .",
    "the parameter choice @xmath56 in the action ( [ cdef ] ) in particular @xcite induces the correct @xmath0 yang - mills relation between the deconfinement phase transition temperature @xmath62 and the zero - temperature string tension @xmath63 , namely @xmath64 .",
    "temperatures in the following can thus consistently be given in units of @xmath62 .",
    "similar to above , at high temperatures , the range of accessible monopole densities e.g. at @xmath65 was @xmath66    one might a priori expect that these monopole densities can be tuned such that the random surface model reproduces the topological susceptibility of yang - mills theory .",
    "however , when measuring the topological susceptibility in diverse ensembles distinguished only by their monopole densities , the variation of the result turned out to be smaller than the error bars over the entire range of accessible densities .",
    "thus , the random surface model in actual fact gives a unique prediction of the topological susceptibility independent of any additional model tuning .",
    "the main reason for this lies in the fact that writhing points are considerably more abundant than intersection points ; however , as discussed in section [ plasec ] , the contribution generated by the former can be evaluated independently , and is invariant under changes , of the monopole configuration ( as far as they are topologically possible ) . as an example , while the full zero - temperature topological susceptibility amounts to @xmath67 mev , cf .",
    "[ chifig ] , the zero - temperature susceptibility generated by taking only intersection points into account is @xmath68 mev , again over the whole range ( [ monrho ] ) ) .",
    "this at first sight surprisingly stable result is presumably due to the additional effect that the degree of non - orientability of the vortex surfaces , which implies a lower bound on the density of monopoles , already suffices to effectively randomize the signs of the contributions @xmath10 from intersection points to the pontryagin index ; as a consequence , additional monopole loops do not further appreciably change the variance of the topological charge associated with these intersection points .",
    "similarly , at high temperatures , the topological susceptibility generated by intersection points alone e.g. at @xmath65 amounts to @xmath69 mev , over the whole range ( [ monrhot ] ) .",
    "in this case , intersection points are very sparse ; more than 95% of the configurations contain no intersection points . as evidenced by comparison with the full value of the topological susceptibility , @xmath70 mev",
    ", writhing points also dominate in the high - temperature phase .",
    "therefore , also in this phase , one obtains a unique prediction for the topological susceptibility .",
    "= 8.3 cm    fig .",
    "[ chifig ] displays the topological susceptibility @xmath71 in the random surface model as a function of temperature .",
    "the zero - temperature value , @xmath67 mev , is compatible with other measurements in full @xmath0 yang - mills theory @xcite .",
    "the topological susceptibility persists in the deconfined phase , but drops to @xmath70 mev at @xmath65 .",
    "the temperature dependence is similar to the behavior displayed in @xcite , but the error bars do not quite overlap at @xmath72 and @xmath65 .",
    "however , as far as the author understands , the error bars in @xcite are purely statistical , and no estimate is included of the systematic error inherent in the extraction procedure used .",
    "thus , it is not clear at this stage whether the residual deviation at high temperature signals a genuine discrepancy between the random vortex model and full yang - mills theory .",
    "the chief uncertainty in the measurements displayed in fig . [ chifig ] indeed results from the systematic error introduced by the modification of the vortex surfaces after they have been transferred onto a finer lattice , cf .",
    "section [ remil ] .",
    "the magnitude of this error is estimated from the change induced by the aforementioned procedure in quantities such as the vortex and monopole densities . however , at high temperatures , statistical errors become comparable to the systematic uncertainties due to a stronger autocorrelation in the course of the ensemble generation .    in terms of the physical consequences ,",
    "while the @xmath1 anomaly persists in the deconfined phase , it loses its dominating character e.g. in the witten - veneziano estimate @xcite for the mass of the @xmath2 meson .",
    "rather , it becomes one effect among several , comparable e.g. in magnitude to the explicit @xmath73 flavor symmetry breaking via the quark masses .",
    "in this work , a random surface model for @xmath0 center vortices , designed to reproduce the confinement properties of yang - mills theory @xcite , was shown to simultaneously predict the correct topological susceptibility .",
    "while confinement and the topological aspects of the yang - mills ensemble have hitherto largely been modeled on a separate footing , the vortex picture bridges this gap and the aforementioned phenomena find a unified description .",
    "the center vortex framework thus shows increasing promise of being suited to consistently capture the gamut of nonperturbative effects characterizing the infrared regime of the strong interactions .    in order to arrive at this result , a workable definition of the pontryagin index for vortex world - surface configurations composed of plaquettes on a hypercubic lattice had to be developed , cf .",
    "section [ defchap ] .",
    "similar to the so - called geometrical definition of the pontryagin index @xcite in lattice yang - mills theory , coarse - graining ambiguities in the lattice configurations must be resolved before the known continuum expression @xcite for the pontryagin index can be used .",
    "work is in progress with the aim of applying these methods also to the center projection vortices extracted from the yang - mills ensemble .",
    "this will allow to explore the question of vortex dominance for the pontryagin index , in analogy to the center dominance observed for wilson loops @xcite,@xcite,@xcite .",
    "such an investigation constitutes a more stringent test than the converse experiment @xcite , which showed that an ensemble devoid of center vortices is concentrated in the trivial topological sector .    besides confinement and topological properties",
    ", the vortex model will have to be confronted with the phenomenon of spontaneous chiral symmetry breaking .",
    "for this purpose , fermionic degrees of freedom must for the first time be included into the description . on a technical level",
    ", it will be necessary to develop efficient methods of evaluating the dirac operator in a vortex background . in this respect ,",
    "the vortex model presents a simplification compared with full lattice qcd which may be decisive : while the random surfaces describing the model vortex ensemble ( [ partit ] ) are composed of lattice plaquettes , there is no conceptual difficulty in embedding them in a space - time continuum ; indeed , one can straightforwardly associate a continuum field strength and a continuum gauge field with the surfaces .",
    "the advantages connected with this feature to some extent already became apparent in the construction of the pontryagin index , cf .",
    "section [ defchap ] , and it also opens the possibility of a continuum evaluation of the dirac operator . from a physical aspect , the success of instanton models in generating the spontaneous breaking of chiral symmetry leads to the expectation that the vortex model will fare likewise , in view of its correct description of the topological characteristics highlighted in this work .",
    "first and foremost , the author wishes to thank m.  faber for numerous intense and fruitful discussions during the author s stay at tu vienna in september 1999 , where the basic ideas of the present work were developed .",
    "the hospitality of the institute of nuclear physics at tu vienna as a whole is acknowledged , as is dfg for financing the stay within grant no .",
    "dfg en 415/1 - 1 .",
    "the author furthermore profited from insights provided by h.  reinhardt , in collaboration with whom prior work @xcite,@xcite leading up to the present one was carried out . also , useful discussions with r.  alkofer , r.  bertle ,  .",
    "olejnk , m.  quandt and o.  schrder contributed to this investigation .",
    "99 g.  t  hooft , phys .",
    "* 37 * ( 1976 ) 8 .",
    "e.  witten , nucl .",
    "b156 * ( 1979 ) 269 ; + g.  veneziano , nucl .",
    "b159 * ( 1979 ) 213 .",
    "a.  a.  belavin , a.  m.  polyakov , a.  z.  schwartz and yu .",
    "s.  tyupkin , phys .",
    "b59 * ( 1975 ) 85 ; + c.  callan , r.  dashen and d.  gross , phys . rev .",
    "* d 17 * ( 1978 ) 2717 .",
    "e.  v.  shuryak , nucl . phys . * b203 * ( 1982 ) 93,116,140 ; + e.  v.  shuryak , nucl",
    "b302 * ( 1988 ) 559,574,599,621 ; + e.  v.  shuryak and j.  j.  m.  verbaarschot , nucl . phys .",
    "* b410 * ( 1993 ) 37,55,143 .",
    "t.  banks and a.  casher , nucl .",
    "b169 * ( 1980 ) 103 .",
    "r.  c.  brower , d.  chen , j.  w.  negele and e.  shuryak , nucl .",
    "* 73 * ( 1999 ) 512 .",
    "g.  t  hooft , nucl .",
    "b190 * ( 1981 ) 455 . s.  mandelstam , phys . rep .",
    "* 23c * ( 1976 ) 245 ; + a.  kronfeld , m.  laursen , g.  schierholz and u .- j .",
    "wiese , nucl .",
    "phys . * b293 * ( 1987 ) 461 ; + t.  suzuki and i.  yotsuyanagi , phys . rev . *",
    "d 42 * ( 1990 ) 4257 ; + g.  s.  bali , v.  bornyakov , m.  mller - preussker and k.  schilling , phys . rev . *",
    "d 54 * ( 1996 ) 2863 .",
    "a.  hart and m.  teper , phys .",
    "b371 * ( 1996 ) 261 ; + r.  c.  brower , k.  n.  orginos and c .- i .",
    "tan , phys . rev . *",
    "d 55 * ( 1997 ) 6313 ; + e.  m.  ilgenfritz , s.  thurner , h.  markum and m.  mller - preussker , phys .",
    "d 61 * ( 2000 ) 054501 .",
    "g.  t  hooft , nucl . phys .",
    "* b138 * ( 1978 ) 1 .",
    "y.  aharonov , a.  casher and s.  yankielowicz , nucl .",
    "* b146 * ( 1978 ) 256 .",
    "j.  m.  cornwall , nucl . phys . *",
    "b157 * ( 1979 ) 392 . g.  mack and v.  b.  petkova , ann .",
    "( ny ) * 123 * ( 1979 ) 442 ; + g.  mack , phys",
    "* 45 * ( 1980 ) 1378 ; + g.  mack and v.  b.  petkova , ann .",
    "( ny ) * 125 * ( 1980 ) 117 ; + g.  mack , in : _ recent developments in gauge theories _ , eds . g.  t  hooft et al . (",
    "plenum , new york , 1980 ) ; + g.  mack and e.  pietarinen , nucl .",
    "phys . * b205 * [ fs5 ] ( 1982 ) 141 .",
    "h.  b.  nielsen and p.  olesen , nucl .",
    "b160 * ( 1979 ) 380 ; + j.  ambjrn and p.  olesen , nucl . phys . * b170 * [ fs1 ] ( 1980 ) 60 ; + j.  ambjrn and p.  olesen , nucl . phys . * b170 * [ fs1 ] ( 1980 ) 265 .",
    "+ p.  olesen , nucl .",
    "phys . * b200 * [ fs4 ] ( 1982 ) 381 . l.  del debbio , m.  faber , j.  greensite and  .",
    "olejnk , phys . rev .",
    "* d 55 * ( 1997 ) 2298 .",
    "l.  del debbio , m.  faber , j.  greensite and  .",
    "olejnk , in : _ new developments in quantum field theory _ ,",
    "p.  h.  damgaard and j.  jurkiewicz ( plenum press , new york ",
    "london , 1998 ) ; hep - lat/9708023 .",
    "m.  faber , j.  greensite and  .",
    "olejnk , phys . rev . * d 57 * ( 1998 ) 2603 .",
    "l.  del debbio , m.  faber , j.  giedt , j.  greensite and  .",
    "olejnk , phys . rev . *",
    "d 58 * ( 1998 ) 094501 .",
    "r.  bertle , m.  faber , j.  greensite and  .",
    "olejnk , jhep * 9903 * ( 1999 ) 019 .",
    "m.  faber , j.  greensite ,  .",
    "olejnk and d.  yamada , jhep * 9912 * ( 1999 ) 012",
    ". m.  faber , j.  greensite and  .",
    "olejnk , phys . lett .",
    "* b474 * ( 2000 ) 177 .",
    "j.  ambjrn and j.  greensite , jhep * 9805 * ( 1998 ) 004 .",
    "j.  ambjrn , j.  giedt and j.  greensite , hep - lat/9907021 .",
    "t.  g.  kovcs and e.  t.  tomboulis , phys . rev .",
    "* d 57 * ( 1998 ) 4054 ; + t.  g.  kovcs and e.  t.  tomboulis , phys .",
    "* b443 * ( 1998 ) 239 ; + t.  g.  kovcs and e.  t.  tomboulis , j. math . phys .",
    "* 40 * ( 1999 ) 4677 ; + t.  g.  kovcs and e.  t.  tomboulis , phys .",
    "b463 * ( 1999 ) 104 ; + t.  g.  kovcs and e.  t.  tomboulis , hep - lat/0002004 .",
    "j.  m.  cornwall , phys . rev .",
    "* d 58 * ( 1998 ) 105028 .",
    "j.  m.  cornwall , hep - th/9911125 .",
    "p.  de  forcrand and m.  delia , phys .",
    "* 82 * ( 1999 ) 4582 . c.  alexandrou , m.  delia and p.  de  forcrand , talk presented at the 17th international symposium on lattice field theory ( lattice 99 ) , pisa , italy , 29 june - 3 july 1999 , hep - lat/9907028 . c.  alexandrou , p.  de  forcrand and m.  delia , talk presented at the 15th international conference on particles and nuclei ( panic 99 ) , uppsala , sweden , 10 - 16 june 1999 , hep - lat/9909005 .",
    "a.  montero , phys .",
    "* b467 * ( 1999 ) 106 .",
    "a.  montero , hep - lat/0004002 .",
    "m.  engelhardt , k.  langfeld , h.  reinhardt and o.  tennert , phys .",
    "b431 * ( 1998 ) 141 .",
    "k.  langfeld , o.  tennert , m.  engelhardt and h.  reinhardt , phys . lett .",
    "* b452 * ( 1999 ) 301 .",
    "m.  engelhardt , k.  langfeld , h.  reinhardt and o.  tennert , phys .",
    "d 61 * ( 2000 ) 054504 .",
    "m.  engelhardt and h.  reinhardt , nucl .",
    "b567 * ( 2000 ) 249 .",
    "m.  engelhardt and h.  reinhardt , hep - lat/9912003 .",
    "a.  digiacomo , talk presented at the international symposium in arenshoop 1997 , hep - lat/9711034 .",
    "m.  lscher , comm .",
    "* 85 * ( 1982 ) 39 .",
    "g.  t  hooft , nucl .",
    "phys . * b153 * ( 1979 ) 141 ; + p.  van  baal , comm .",
    "* 85 * ( 1982 ) 529 ; + m.  garca  prez , a.  gonzlez - arroyo , a.  montero , c.  pena and p.  van  baal , talk presented at the 17th international symposium on lattice field theory ( lattice 99 ) , pisa , italy , 29 june - 3 july 1999 , hep - lat/9909112 .",
    "v.  g.  bornyakov , e.  m.  ilgenfritz , m.  l.  laursen , v.  k.  mitryushkin , m.  mller - preussker , a.  j.  van  der  sijs and a.  m.  zadorozhnyi , phys . lett .",
    "* b261 * ( 1991 ) 116 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a definition of the pontryagin index for @xmath0 center vortex world - surfaces composed of plaquettes on a hypercubic lattice is constructed . </S>",
    "<S> it is used to evaluate the topological susceptibility in a previously defined random surface model for vortices , the parameters of which have been fixed such as to reproduce the confinement properties of @xmath0 yang - mills theory . a prediction for the topological susceptibility </S>",
    "<S> is obtained which is compatible with measurements of this quantity in lattice yang - mills theory .    * center vortex model for the infrared sector of *    * yang - mills theory  topological susceptibility *    m.  engelhardt    _ institut fr theoretische physik , universitt tbingen _    _ d72076 tbingen , germany _    .5truecm pacs : 12.38.aw , 12.38.mh , 12.40.-y    keywords : center vortices , infrared effective theory , topological susceptibility </S>"
  ]
}