{
  "article_text": [
    "one of the possible ways to assess the quality of the interaction models is to use them for the determination of the primary mass composition from the analysis of different cosmic ray components .",
    "the ideal case is to get a consistent mass composition using the same model and different components . as the variety and precision of experimental data and the quality of the theoretical interaction models",
    "are improved , more evidence appears that their quality is still not good enough .",
    "the mass composition derived with the use of electromagnetic and muon components is systematically lighter than when hadrons and muons are used .",
    "mass composition in the knee derived using measurements of the depth of maximum is lighter than that from all ground - based measurements @xcite .",
    "all these facts indicate that the existing model needs further improvement .",
    "the variety of observed eas components and precise measurements of their characteristics by kascade experiment allowed this collaboration to derive the primary mass composition using the multivariate analysis of data .",
    "it was found that not only do different methods applied to the same set of observables give different results , but that there is a systematic difference between the results obtained using the same method , but different components . in figure 1 ,",
    "taken from @xcite , the mean logarithmic mass @xmath0 derived from different sets of observables is shown vs. the so called _ truncated _ muon number @xmath1 , which is an observable adopted as a measure of the primary energy , independent of the primary mass .",
    "the fundamentsl problem is that all the @xmath0 values should be the same at the same value of @xmath1 , and they are not .",
    "a number of features are of interest and , presumably , of some importance : + ( i ) the use of the electron size @xmath2 results in an average lighter composition (  fig.1a  ) . on the other hand , omitting electrons and using just muons and hadrons results in a heavier composition (  fig.1b  ) ; + ( ii ) considering the mean values from the two sets of data (  filled - in circles  ) , the ratio of @xmath3 for(b ) to ( a ) increases smoothly with @xmath4 , i.e. the discrepancy between ( b ) and ( a ) rises with increasing primary energy (  fig.1c  ) .",
    "this difference points to inadequacies in the models used for the analysis of the experimental data and provides an impetus to correct them .",
    "however the corrections should not be radical , because the difference between the @xmath0 is not large , typically @xmath5 0.2 - 0.4 .",
    "the mentioned systematic difference can be an indication that the energy distribution between the different shower components is slightly different from that in the models : specifically , the actual mean number of electrons @xmath2 in eas appears to be higher , that of muons @xmath6 slightly lower and that of hadrons @xmath7 lower still than in the models .",
    "it is well known from the present models that for the same primary energy the number of muons in nuclei - induced showers is higher than in proton - induced ones . on the other hand",
    "the number of electrons and hadrons in nucleus - induced showers observed in the lower half of the atmosphere is lower than in proton ones .",
    "if one has an opportunity to measure the primary energy , by muons , cherenkov light or another technique , and finds that the shower has a low @xmath6 or a high @xmath2 (  actually the ratio @xmath8 is important  ) the conclusion will be that this shower is initiated by a proton or light nucleus . on the contrary , if one finds that the shower has a low @xmath7 the conclusion will be the opposite , i.e. that the shower is initiated by a heavy nucleus .",
    "this is exactly what is observed in the showers at sea level .",
    "the same conclusion can be drawn from an analysis of kascade event rates @xcite .",
    "both the muon and hadron trigger rates , observed by kascade , are lower than expected from the model calculations .",
    "this discrepancy indicates again that the actual numbers of muons and hadrons in eas are lower than in the models , although the energy region responsible for the trigger rates is lower than that analysed for the mass composition around the knee .",
    "the analysis of this discrepancy indicates that the needed reduction of the number of muons in the model should be about 6% , for hadrons it is bigger - about 29% . because muons and hadrons are the products of hadronic cascades , it is evident from the energy balance that to reduce the energy contained in the hadronic cascade one has to increase the energy transferred into the electromagnetic cascade",
    "to evaluate the effect of the proposed change of the balance between different cascade components we applied the semi - quantitative analytical approach , details of which can be found in @xcite .",
    "the results of the calculation for our basic set of parameters are shown in figure 2a by a full line . according to our suggestion",
    "we increased the energy fraction transferred by nucleons into the electromagnetic component @xmath9 from 0.20 to 0.26 .",
    "the result is shown in figure 2a by the dashed line : the muon energy at sea level decreased by @xmath10 6% , the hadron energy decreased by @xmath10 23% , the energy transferred into the electromagnetic component increased by @xmath10 2% .",
    "the balance of the energy contained in the major eas components is convenient to analyse using the so - called triangle diagrams @xcite .",
    "if the height of an equilateral triangle is equal to 1 , then for each point inside this triangle the sum of the distances to its sides is equal to 1 . if we know the energy fractions carried by the electromagnetic ( @xmath11 ) , muon ( @xmath12 ) and hadron ( @xmath13 ) components at the observation level , so that @xmath14 , then each shower can be presented by a single point inside the triangle .",
    "our basic shower (  fig.2 , full line  ) is shown in fugure 3 by a full circle . the desired direction for the shift of the energy balance in the modified model",
    "is shown by the straight line arrow in figure 3b .    however , despite the increase of the energy _ transferred _ into the electromagnetic component , the _ preserved _ electromagnetic energy and the electron size of the shower at sea level decreased by 14% due to its faster development and then faster attenuation of the cascade (  figure 2b  ) .",
    "the point in the triangle diagram moved in the different direction (  open circle  ) .",
    "the similar result is obtained if we increase the total inelasticity @xmath15 with @xmath16 .",
    "therefore _ the mere increase of the mean value of @xmath9 can not give the required result .",
    "_    we argue that another effect that _ should _ be present will bring about the desired effect : the slowing down of the development of the cascade in its initial stages . for illustration purposes we slow down the development of the hadronic and electromagnetic cascade by increasing the elongation rate _ er _ from 65 g@xmath17 to 71 g@xmath17 , preserving @xmath9 = 0.26 .",
    "the result is shown in figure 2 by dotted lines . the direction and",
    "the magnitude of the changes is now correct .",
    "thus we conclude that _ the increase of the energy transferred into the electromagnetic component combined with the slowing down of the development of cascades in their initial stages is the most realistic way to improve the particle interaction model and to achieve a consistent estimate of the primary mass composition . _",
    "besides all these arguments , which are purely phenomenological , there are also theoretical arguments which lend support to the phenomenological consideration . nearly all of them are related to processes which appear in nucleus - nucleus (  aa  ) interactions .",
    "their details are given in @xcite and here we just enumerate them .    in aa collisions with a small impact parameters (  central collisions  ) one has to expect the production of @xmath18-pairs including the multiple pair production .",
    "this process provides an additional energy transfer into the electromagnetic component and it was not taken into account in the present models .",
    "an additional energy transfer into the electromagnetic component can arise also from an excess of direct photons , which has been predicted theoretically as a signature of the quark - gluon plasma and is now observed in aa - collisions both at low and high transverse momentum .    in aa collisions with a large impact parameters (  peripheral collisions  ) a projectile nucleus fragments into few pieces of different mass .",
    "some of them are excited and after de - excitation give rise to mev gamma - ray lines , observed from discrete sources and the interstellar medium .",
    "the lifetime of the excited fragments varies from a nuclear time @xmath19 sec to millions of years . for aa - interactions at pev energies both the lifetime before the de - excitation and the energy of emitted gamma - quanta are extended by the factor of 10@xmath20 - 10@xmath21 due to relativistic effects . as a consequence one can expect an additional sub - pev electromagnetic cascade to be initiated a few hundred meters below the point of the first interaction .",
    "this effect will slow down the development of the electromagnetic cascade and shift its maximum .",
    "the inconsistencies in the interpretation of the experimental data on the primary mass composition , obtained when different eas components are used for the analysis , indicate the need for some improvement to the models which were used hitherto .",
    "we propose that the most promising way is to introduce an additional (  a few percent  ) energy transfer into the eas electromagnetic component combined with a slowing down of the cascade development in its initial stages , which is followed by a small (  20 - 30 g@xmath17  ) shift of the shower maximum into the deeper atmosphere .",
    "the most likely processes which can be responsible for such changes are those which occur in aa - collisions and they should indeed be present _ at some level_. the importance of these processes is expected to grow with energy and offers the hope of resolving some controversies at very high energies .",
    "99 swordy s.p .",
    "et al . , 2002 , astro - ph/0202159 roth m. et al . , 2001 ,",
    "27th icrc , hamburg , * 1 * , 88 erlykin a.d . , wolfendale a.w .",
    "1998 , astropart .",
    "* 9 * , 213 antoni t. et al . , 2001 ,",
    "g : nucl . part .",
    "* 27 * , 1785 erlykin a.d . , wolfendale a.w .",
    "2002 , astropart .",
    "phys . , * 18 * , 151 danilova t.v . ,",
    "erlykin a.d . , 1983 ,",
    "18th icrc , bangalore , * 5 * , 262"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> an analysis has been made of the present situation with respect to the high energy hadron - nucleus and nucleus - nucleus interaction models as applied to cosmic rays . </S>",
    "<S> as is already known , there are inconsistencies in the interpretation of experimental data on the primary mass composition , which appear when different eas components are used for the analyses , even for the same experiment . in the absence of obvious experimental defects </S>",
    "<S> , there is a clear need for an improvement to the existing models ; we argue that the most promising way is to enlist two effects which should be present in nucleus - nucleus collisions but have not been allowed for before . </S>",
    "<S> these are : a few percent energy transfer into the eas electromagnetic component due to electron - positron pair production or electromagnetic radiation of the quark - gluon plasma and a small slow - down of the cascading process in its initial stages associated with the extended lifetime of excited nuclear fragments . </S>",
    "<S> the latter process displaces the shower maximum deeper into the atmosphere . </S>"
  ]
}