{
  "article_text": [
    "a solar neutrino time projection chamber ( tpc ) provides unique and very powerful information about solar neutrinos , their nuclear parents and their fluxes ( electron and non - electron ) , which ultimately translates into better measurements of the neutrino mass and mixing parameters @xcite .",
    "the tpc measures only @xmath0 elastic scattering , and determines the electron direction and kinetic energy .",
    "this information allows reconstruction of the incident neutrino energy .",
    "directionality also allows to use only electrons recoiling away from the sun , effectively eliminating most background events .",
    "the rest of the background events is eliminated by subtracting a 12-hours delayed coincidence , very much the same way as the superkamiokande experiment can extract a clean solar neutrino sample mixed with a much larger non - directional background @xcite . in that experiment , however , low recoil angle and large multiple scattering conspire to destroy any directional information that could help to determine the neutrino energy .",
    "the tpc considered here looks at events with large scattering angle and low multiple scattering @xcite .",
    "this paper is written for the sole purpose of confirming that this detector can work at moderate depths .",
    "this has been the subject of much skepticism in public meetings , and besides the main results , consistency checks are offered .",
    "there are several advantages in working at moderate depths :    * virtually all available underground sites can accommodate this detector , allowing us to concentrate on the aspects that really matter : low excavation costs , low radon , quality and quantity of dust contamination , and strong laboratory support .",
    "* this detector will be housed in a gigantic hall .",
    "low overburden reduces the civil engineering complexity .",
    "* very deep sites have unacceptable rock temperatures , making the assembly and operation more difficult and expensive .",
    "* moderate depths allow the plentiful observation of certain background events , which provide excellent calibration of the tpc performance .",
    "these include @xcite : * * @xmath1 straight , minimum - ionizing cosmic rays per year , which allow a complete calibration of the electric field , gain , electronics amplification , electron lifetime , and diffusion , without a need for separate hardware and software .",
    "a tpc `` without moving parts '' minimizes failures and avoids costly and potentially contaminating accesses . *",
    "* @xmath2 delta rays above 100 kev per year .",
    "these have a well - known kinematic relation between the angle and energy of the delta ray , providing free and very accurate calibration of the detector resolution .    in section [ intr ] , we introduce concepts useful to the analysis .",
    "the main results are presented in section [ resul ] , divided into analyzes of cosmogenesis backgrounds generated above and below ground .",
    "depths between 1500 and 3000 mwe are considered . in section [ x - check ] , we cross check our results against other , published results and draw the conclusions .",
    "in the following , we consider a tpc whose parameters have been outlined in @xcite . briefly , as shown in fig.[drawi ] , it is a tpc of 4000 cubic meters volume , surrounded by a 1.5 meters of radiopure , hydrogen rich material ( either plastic or water ice ) , which forms the inner shielding .",
    "surrounding the inner shielding are 30 centimeters of steel , forming the pressure vessel and outer shielding .",
    "the weight of the inner shield is 1.9 kilotons , and the weight of the iron is 3.6 kilotons .",
    "the last five centimeter thick layer of the inner shield , surrounding the tpc , weighs 59 tons .",
    "we mention it here because it is particularly helpful for instantly estimating self - shielded backgrounds ( see section 2 ) .",
    "the tpc contains 7.6 tons of gas at ten atmospheres , and the gas is a mixture of helium ( 97% ) and methane ( 3% ) , for a total methane weight of 840 kg .",
    "the tpc will also contain approximately 100 kg of electrodeposited copper and 2 kg of sense wires . with these conditions , 14 meters of gas ( the diameter of the chamber ) represent approximately 0.14 compton interaction lengths , indicating that roughly one in seven 1 mev gamma rays entering the chamber will interact with the gas .",
    "we have discussed elsewhere @xcite that recoiling electrons will generate a track of 9 cm length for 100 kev electrons and of 1.8 m for 600 kev electrons .",
    "the maximum drift time is 8.3 milliseconds , so that the tpc snaps an electronic picture of the gas volume 120 times per second . whenever an event is encountered , a time interval around the event of @xmath3msec is considered for vetoing .",
    "the signal ( a single electron ) is readily simulated by @xmath4 radiation inside the active volume , and @xmath5 radiation from any source , generating a compton scattering inside the chamber .",
    "when looking at the volume distribution , the tpc occupies about 62% of the volume in fig.[drawi ] .",
    "most cosmic rays will track through the sensitive volume and provide a direct veto that eliminates all short - lived radionuclides as well as neutrons , which thermalize and are absorbed in about 0.1 msec in the inner shield .",
    "about 25% of cosmic rays crossing the steel shell will not cross the active volume and all types of radioactive backgrounds produced by them will have to be considered .    when looking at the weight distribution , however , the active volume of the tpc only has a 0.13% share of the total weight .",
    "cosmogenesis backgrounds produced outside the active volume have a very small chance of interacting with the gas .    in @xcite",
    ", it was found that background rates of around 600 events per day , above 100 kev and before directional cuts , result in a non - dominant background subtraction error over two years of data taking . over a longer period of time ,",
    "even background rates at the level of one thousand events per day will not drastically affect the final precision of the experiment .      at any given depth",
    ", the quantity of a particular long - lived daughter @xmath6 , generated in a given sample of mother nuclei @xmath7 , can be described by a charging capacitor law @xmath8 where @xmath9 is the daughter nuclide lifetime .",
    "the variable @xmath10 carries all the information about the reaction probability , @xmath11 here @xmath12 is the number of target nuclei , @xmath13 the depth - dependent flux , and @xmath14 the cross - section for the process , averaged over the depth - dependent spectrum , @xmath15 the values of @xmath10 for dominant reactions are given in table [ reac - prob ] .",
    "the cross section depends strongly on the depth . besides the overburden attenuation",
    ", nuclide activation is dominated by hadronic showers at sea level ( @xmath16 meters of water equivalent , mwe ) , by muon capture at intermediate depths and by fast muons at all depths below 100 mwe @xcite .",
    "the activity during charge - up is @xmath17 and after a long time one obtains : @xmath18 for a sample that is charged up at the surface and taken deep underground , the discharging capacitor equations hold : @xmath19 @xmath20 is , in all practical cases , close to @xmath21 . it can be reduced by up to two orders of magnitude for materials which are mined or taken deep underground , and are exposed to surface radiation during transportation or processing before storing underground again .",
    "cosmic fluxes , their energy and angular dependence were kindly provided by e. nolte @xcite .",
    "nolte provided us also with the measured cross sections for nuclide production by fast muons , and the measured muon capture cross sections to estimate this source of backgrounds as well @xcite .",
    ".the activation probabilities @xmath10 , for significant reactions and at various depths.[reac - prob ] [ cols=\"^,^,^,^ \" , ]      the energy deposited by fast muons in our device increases by a factor of 1.7 , to @xmath22 gev per day ( 1500 mwe ) , when bremsstrahlung is taken into account . at 3000 mwe ,",
    "the factor and deposited energy are 2.2 and @xmath23 gev per day , respectively . the average photon energy ( energy weighted ) is approximately 100 ( at 1500 mwe ) to 150 gev ( at 3000 mwe ) .",
    "the average photon energy above 200 kev varies from 15 ( at 1500 mwe ) to 20 gev ( at 3000 mwe ) .",
    "because of the @xmath24 dependence of bremsstrahlung , about 97% of the photons are emitted in the iron .",
    "the total number of photons between 200 kev and 10 mev is about 1000 ( at 1500 mwe ) to 50 ( at 3000 mwe ) per day , and they are emitted nearly parallel to the muon . in practice , simulations showed that this source of backgrounds contributes less than 0.1 candidate events per day at any depth .",
    "muon capture at these depths ranges from 0.03/ton / day ( 1500 mwe ) to 0.002/ton / day ( 3000 mwe ) .",
    "these numbers are at least two orders of magnitude below those provided in table [ reac - prob ] and are negligible .",
    "there are ways to roughly cross check our results .",
    "if radiopurity is expressed in @xmath25 equivalent purity , borexino purity needs are about @xmath26 g / g @xcite and less than ten events per day . in the case of the tpc , the cage needs to have a purity of @xmath27 g / g @xcite and less than 600 events per day ( the two numbers do not scale the same way because the cage weighs less than the borexino inner detector , and because only a fraction of the gammas originating in the cage will interact in the tpc volume ) .",
    "if borexino would observe negligible backgrounds at 4500 mwe ( 1200 mwe below its current location ) , then the tpc will observe negligible backgrounds at roughly 1200 mwe , if scaled by purity , and at 2000 mwe , if scaled by number of events .        1 .",
    "the active volume occupies 62% of the total device , but weighs only 0.1% of the total weight .",
    "the active volume intercepts a large fraction of the cosmic rays and most short - lived radionuclides are simply vetoed by the observable muon track .",
    "2 .   it distinguishes events of multiplicity two or more from events of multiplicity one .",
    "its active volume is virtually free of any significant cosmogenesis backgrounds .",
    "cosmogenesis backgrounds come from the surrounding materials , which are self - shielded .",
    "the tpc directional capability further eliminates most events not pointing at the sun , and subtracts statistically the remainder .",
    "the largest long - term backgrounds found by this analysis were from copper and steel activated at the surface ( which are independent of depth ) .",
    "two lessons are to be learned from this analysis .",
    "first , copper will have to be electrodeposited , a procedure known to suppress backgrounds by at least a few orders of magnitude . in particular ,",
    "electrodeposition virtually eliminates @xmath28co @xcite .",
    "second , during the r&d phase , there will be of order 0.5 meters of inner shielding , and the backgrounds should be dominated by @xmath29mn ( after the r&d device is adequately shielded from the surrounding rock ) .",
    "there will be a premium in obtaining steel that has been `` sheltered '' from cosmic radiation . in the final detector , @xmath29mn is taken care of by increasing the thickness of the inner shield by 0.5 meters ( originally @xcite a one meter thick inner shield was considered ) .    in practice ,",
    "the tpc depth is not limited by backgrounds , but rather by dead time , surface charging and future applications for the tpc .",
    "civil engineering needs to be assessed too to evaluate the cost of a very large hall as a function of depth .",
    "surface charging has been discussed in @xcite .",
    "the advantages in building a tpc with insulating walls are better electrostatic stability and better control of the materials .",
    "the exact limit depends on the final choice of plastic and the safety factor above the charge - up limit . for acrylic",
    "it is probably advisable not to go above 2000 mwe , whereas a plastic as conductive as polyethylene would not be charged up under any realistic circumstances .",
    "future applications of the tpc may include dark matter searches , where low - energy nuclear recoil ( roughly 20 kev ) is the signature for dark matter interactions .",
    "the signature is non - directional , and the recoil energy is proportional to the nuclear mass of the target . in practice one",
    "tries to see a change in the very low energy spectrum when the gas nuclear mass changes ( @xmath30 , varying the gas from helium to carbon , then to neon , argon , xenon ) .",
    "the lack of directional information , plus varying cosmogenesis backgrounds , will perhaps provide the most stringent constraints on depth .",
    "we are particularly indebted to r. brodzinski and e. nolte .",
    "dr . brodzinski pointed out that backgrounds would probably be dominated by above ground activation , and provided information and criticism that was helpful throughout the paper .",
    "nolte provided an early version of his soon - to - be published paper which provided the backbone for all the calculations and results presented in this paper .",
    "g. bonvicini _",
    ", hep - ph/0109199 , contributed to snowmass 2001 , the future of particle physics .",
    "et al . _ , nucl .",
    "instr . meth .",
    "a449 : 172,1999 g. bonvicini , d. naples and v. paolone , hep - ex/010932 , submitted to nuclear instruments and methods .",
    "e. cheu , tracking studies , solar neutrino tpc internal memo .",
    "e. nolte , private communications .",
    "et al . _ ,",
    "instr . and meth .",
    "b 92 ( 1994 ) 311 ; k. nishiizumi _",
    "et al . _ , j. geophys .",
    "94 ( 1989 ) 17 ; k. nishiizumi _ et al .",
    "_ , j. geophys .",
    "res . 101 ( 1991 ) 22,225 ; a. j. t. jull _",
    "et al . _ ,",
    "instr . and meth .",
    "b 92 ( 1994 ) 308 ; d. lal and a. j. t. jull , nucl . instr . and meth .",
    "b 92 ( 1994 ) 291;. f. m. phillips _ et al . _ ,",
    "( 1996 ) 23,949 .",
    "j. m. evans _",
    "et al . _ ,",
    "nucl . instr . and meth .",
    "b 123 ( 1997 ) 334 ; b. heisinger , diploma thesis , technical university of munich , germany ( 1994 ) . c. arpesella _ et al . _ , hep - ex/0109031 , submitted to astropart . physics .",
    "r. brodzinski , private communications ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a time projection chamber ( tpc ) is one of the promising candidates to perform unique measurements in solar neutrino physics . </S>",
    "<S> its features will enable it to work at depths of the order of 2000 mwe . </S>",
    "<S> this paper describes an estimation of the expected cosmogenic background at different depths including also the background due to fission activation of the tpc material above ground .    ,    solar , neutrino , detector 26.65 , 96.60.j </S>"
  ]
}