{
  "article_text": [
    "with the commissioning of fermilab s tevatron proton - antiproton collider in 1988 and cern s lep electron - positron collider in 1989 , the standard model of the strong and electroweak interactions has received overwhelming experimental support , with some predictions checked to accuracies as high as 0.1% . among the several experimental measurements ,",
    "perhaps the most impressive ones have been the precise determination of the masses of the @xmath2 ( @xmath3 @xcite ) and @xmath4 ( @xmath5 @xcite ) gauge bosons which mediate the electroweak interactions , and the related weak mixing angle ( @xmath6 ) , as well as the number of light neutrino species ( @xmath7 ) .",
    "this body of data agrees with the predictions of the standard model in basically every instance , and helps  clean up \" the mass range below @xmath8 , where no new physics has been observed .",
    "such degree of purity of the standard model below the electroweak scale needs to be naturally accommodated by any of its proposed extensions .",
    "the most recent confirmation of the standard model has been the discovery at the tevatron ( 1995 ) of the long sought - for top quark by the cdf and d0 collaborations @xcite .",
    "the mass of the top quark , which early on had been theorized to be as low as @xmath9 , has experimentally turned out to be some ten times larger . the standard model , in fact , does not predict the mass of the top quark , or the mass of any other quark or lepton , or the quark mixing angles .",
    "similarly there is no explanation for the observed number of fermion families ( three ) , the quantization of the electric charge , the magnitude of the weak mixing angle , the dynamical origin of the electroweak symmetry breaking , the mass of the higgs boson , etc .",
    "the standard model also lacks some appealing features , such as neutrino masses , unified strong and electroweak symmetry and gravity , matter instability ( proton decay ) , and a cold dark matter candidate .",
    "finally , the standard model has some subtle problems when extrapolated to very high energies : the electromagnetic ( qed ) and top - quark yukawa couplings encounter a landau pole ( , they become very large ) at sufficiently high energies . these various shortcomings of",
    "the standard model require theoretical explanation , although they do not detract from the fact that the standard model is an excellent effective theory for energies @xmath10 .",
    "in this review we will argue that the standard model parameters and features are most clearly understood when the energy scale of the interactions is extrapolated to higher values ( @xmath11 ) .",
    "this extrapolation is postulated to uncover larger symmetries which correlate various model parameters .",
    "these larger theories are ( much ) more constrained than the standard model , and therefore have ( much ) greater predictive power .",
    "the basic underlying _ assumptions _ that we make in considering different scales is that physical quantities at different mass scales ( , the electroweak scale @xmath12 and the planck scale @xmath13 ) are connected in a _",
    "calculable _ and _ natural _ way . in the realm of quantum field theory ,",
    "specific relations between physical quantities at different mass scales are required , as dictated by the _ renormalization group _ invariance of the theory .",
    "these renormalization group equations ( rges ) depend on the nature of the theory , and can be derived explicitly in all cases of interest . starting from a weakly interacting theory at low mass scales ( the standard model ) ,",
    "these equations can be used to evolve the model parameters to larger mass scales .",
    "our calculability assumption implies that the model should remain perturbative ( , weakly interacting ) all the way up to the highest mass scales to be considered .",
    "the rges themselves do not guarantee this , as for example in the case of the qed gauge coupling ( the fine - structure constant @xmath14 ) , which becomes large at very high mass scales .",
    "the calculability assumption is satisfied in this case by the existence of the planck scale , which effectively cuts off the growth of @xmath14 .",
    "our naturalness assumption is also not guaranteed by the rges .",
    "very heavy particles can creep into the low - energy world through their appearance in self - energy loop diagrams of fundamental scalar particles ( like the higgs boson ) .",
    "these diagrams have a quadratic dependence on the high - energy cutoff ( a quadratic divergence ) , and once renormalized yield a finite contribution to the scalar mass shift proportional to , , @xmath15 .",
    "these extremely large mass shifts can be compensated by an equally extreme and unnatural fine - tuning of the renormalized model parameters .",
    "this is the _ gauge hierarchy problem _ , which pervades any attempt at extrapolation to very high mass scales of theories with fundamental scalar particles , and violates our naturalness assumption .",
    "two solutions to this problem have been proposed : either there are no fundamental scalar particles , or the high - energy behavior of the scalar self - energy diagrams is somehow alleviated .",
    "the first solution leads to the ideas of technicolor and compositeness , which have as a principal drawback their general lack of calculability , and therefore violate our first assumption .",
    "( nonetheless , models based on these ideas are regularly considered , although with limited phenomenological success . )    the second solution to the gauge hierarchy problem is based on the idea of _ supersymmetry_. in a theory with fundamental scalars , supersymmetry tames the quadratic divergences by predicting the existence of a  superpartner \" to each particle , with the same mass and gauge quantum numbers , but with spin differing by half - a - unit .",
    "the new fermionic superpartners of scalars and gauge bosons contribute to the higgs - boson self - energy loop diagrams and , because of their different spin - statistics but same mass and gauge quantum numbers , lead to an automatic cancellation of the quadratic divergences .",
    "the scalar mass shifts vanish altogether in the limit of exact supersymmetry",
    ". however , supersymmetry can not be an exact symmetry of nature , since otherwise light superpartners of the quarks and leptons would have been observed .",
    "the breaking of supersymmetry manifests itself via mass splittings between superpartners .",
    "such mass splittings contribute to the higgs - boson mass shifts , and should not exceed @xmath16 if the gauge hierarchy problem is not to be reintroduced , otherwise our naturalness assumption would again be violated .",
    "further theoretical motivation for supersymmetry is found in the form of supergravity , which provides an effective description of quantum gravity at energies below the planck scale .",
    "also , spacetime ( four - dimensional ) supersymmetry is a typical prediction of string theory , whereas world - sheet ( two - dimensional ) supersymmetry is required in order for particles with half - integer spin to exist .",
    "phenomenologically , supersymmetry solves the gauge hierarchy problem and gives meaning to grand unification , which agrees well with the low - energy measurements of the standard model gauge couplings .",
    "supersymmetry also explains dynamically the breaking of the electroweak symmetry via radiative corrections , and predicts the existence of a light higgs boson ( @xmath17 ) .",
    "supersymmetric models typically provide a good candidate for cosmological ( cold ) dark matter : the lightest supersymmetric particle ( lsp )  the neutralino .",
    "experimentally , supersymmetric models predict the existence of many ( @xmath18 ) new elementary particles  the superpartners of the standard model particles  which should be accessible at present and near - future high - energy accelerators via distinct signatures , such as missing energy and low - background multi - leptons signals .",
    "our first step away from the standard model entails the introduction of low - energy supersymmetry , . ] whereby each particle in the standard model is accompanied by a superpartner .",
    "as such this step does not appear to accomplish much in our quest for explanation of the many standard model parameters .",
    "on the contrary , the number of parameters is greatly increased by the addition of more than 30 parameters needed to describe the new particle masses . because of the nature of supersymmetry one also needs to enlarge the higgs sector from one to two higgs doublets . however , since supersymmetry  commutes \" with the gauge interactions , no new unknown couplings are introduced .",
    "the resulting model is referred to as the minimal supersymmetric standard model ( mssm ) .",
    "low - energy supersymmetry does provide a sometimes overlooked benefit in the higgs sector . in",
    "the standard model the mass of the higgs boson derives from a quartic coupling in the scalar potential , and is thus unconstrained , although considerations of a weakly interacting higgs sector suggest that @xmath19 @xcite . in supersymmetry",
    "the quartic coupling is not an independent parameter , but rather a simple function of the gauge couplings , which are known and are not large .",
    "this prediction implies an upper bound on the lightest higgs boson in the mssm of @xmath20 .",
    "that is , the mass of the ( lightest ) higgs boson derives from the electroweak interactions , in contrast with the standard model , where a new sector of the theory needs to be postulated .    to make real gains in explaining the standard model features",
    ", we extrapolate the mssm to higher energies .",
    "this procedure entails  running \" or scaling up the model parameters ( gauge and yukawa couplings and mass parameters ) by means of the rges , hoping to uncover simple relations among the parameters at sufficiently high mass scales . since this scaling is logarithmic , significant changes in the magnitude of the parameters requires order - of - magnitude changes in the mass scales . using the precise lep measurements of the standard model gauge couplings",
    ", it has been shown that this exercise yields a convergence of the gauge couplings towards a single value at the scale @xmath21 .",
    "this phenomenon is _ not _ observed in the standard model , which evolves differently because of its different particle content .",
    "the convergence of the gauge couplings in the mssm is very suggestive of a larger symmetry being encountered at such large mass scales : a _ grand unified theory _ ( gut ) .",
    "in fact , this result has been taken by many as indirect evidence for the existence of ( low - energy ) supersymmetry . however",
    ", the mssm alone does not lead to true unification since , without the new larger symmetry , the gauge couplings would diverge when extrapolated past @xmath22 .    if a gut is indeed present above @xmath22 , then one can rephrase the unification of the gauge couplings ( a bottom - up result ) as a prediction for the weak mixing angle ( @xmath23 ) and the strong coupling ( @xmath24 ) at the electroweak scale ( a top - down result ) .",
    "the larger gauge symmetry is accompanied by new gauge bosons ( which conspire to yield a single unified gauge coupling above @xmath25 ) and new higgs bosons to effect the gauge symmetry breaking down to the standard model gauge group .",
    "typical unified groups include @xmath26 , @xmath27 , and  flipped \" @xmath28 .",
    "the new gut degrees of freedom have various observable consequences .",
    "one of these is the violation of baryon number , which leads to the decay of protons with a lifetime @xmath29 through various channels such as @xmath30 and @xmath31 .",
    "the unified symmetry implies that the standard model particles are grouped into larger representations , and thus their properties are correlated .",
    "these correlations lead , for example , to an explanation of the charge quantization observed in the standard model , and to relations between the yukawa couplings ( , @xmath32 ) . another interesting consequence of the existence of a large mass scale and of our calculability assumption , is the need to restrict the standard model top - quark yukawa coupling ( @xmath33 ) so that it does not blow up below the unification scale .",
    "this constraint implies @xmath34 .      despite their successes , supersymmetric guts",
    "provide only relations among the standard model parameters , with no possibility of first - principles calculations of their actual values .",
    "( of course , guts predict new phenomena beyond the standard model so that they can themselves be in principle tested . ) among the uncalculated parameters we have the many supersymmetric particle masses .",
    "these , in fact , are crucial to the unification program , as only if they are in the @xmath35 range does one achieve unification .",
    "the needed breaking of supersymmetry is phenomenologically viable only if supersymmetry is a _ local _ symmetry ( as the gauge symmetries are ) .",
    "local supersymmetry necessarily involves gravitational interactions , and thus the name _",
    "supergravity_. in a supergravity theory the supersymmetry - breaking parameters are calculable in terms of just two functions : the khler function and the gauge kinetic function .",
    "thus a great synthesis of the unknown parameters can be attained if these functions are known or can be somehow parametrized .",
    "in fact , one of the simplest possible choices for the khler function gives _ universal _",
    "scalar masses , , the masses of the scalar superpartners ( squarks , sleptons , etc ) are all equal at the planck scale .",
    "( renormalization group evolution down to low energies breaks this degeneracy . )",
    "these  minimal \" models can be described in terms of just _ four _ parameters , and have received a great deal of attention in the literature ever since their inception , and especially since the advent of lep .",
    "a special and interesting class of supergravity models aims at solving two thorny problems in supersymmetry : the vanishing of the cosmological constant and the ultimate determination of the scale of the supersymmetric spectrum . in these",
    "_ no - scale _ supergravity models , the tree - level cosmological constant vanishes , and the scalar potential possesses a flat direction along which the scale of the supersymmetric spectrum ( the gravitino mass @xmath36 ) is undetermined . at the electroweak scale",
    "this flat direction is  bent \" and the gravitino naturally acquires a mass of electroweak size .",
    "this mechanism satisfies automatically our naturalness assumption .",
    "another consequence of supergravity is the _ radiative electroweak symmetry breaking mechanism_. the higgs mass - squared parameter in the scalar potential , starting from a positive value at the planck scale , decreases in magnitude as the scale is lowered , eventually vanishing and turning negative , signalling the dynamical breaking of the electroweak symmetry .",
    "in contrast , in the standard model the negative higgs mass - squared parameter is put in by hand .",
    "the radiative breaking mechanism relies on the running of the mass parameters and assures that the mass - squared of charged and colored particles remain positive .",
    "even more interesting is the fact that this phenomenon is possible only in the presence of a not - too - light top quark ( @xmath37 ) .",
    "supergravity theories provide an effective description of quantum gravity , valid at scales @xmath38 . as such they are non - renormalizable and contain an infinite number of higher - dimensional operators suppressed by powers of the planck mass . to make further progress in our quest for understanding the parameters of the standard model ( or the mssm ) , we need to compute the khler function and gauge kinetic function , which determine the spectrum of supersymmetric particles .",
    "we also need to compute the yukawa couplings which give rise to the standard model fermion masses and quark mixing angles .",
    "the  prototheory \" that we seek must in fact have no free parameters .",
    "it turns out that the solution to our problems is offered by _ string theory _ , wherein elementary particles are replaced by tiny strings of dimension @xmath39 . in string theory",
    "_ all _ physical parameters are in principle calculable in terms of the planck mass , or ratios of the planck mass to other dynamically determined mass scales ( such as the vacuum expectation value of the dilaton field , which determines the string gauge coupling ) . as is well - known , at the present stage of its development string theory has a very large number of equivalent ground states , or",
    " string models \" .",
    "each of these models has a continuously connected family associated with it , parametrized by fields with flat potentials called _ moduli_. because of the present inability to pinpoint _ the _ string vacuum ( if it is indeed unique ) , it is widely perceived that string theory can make no predictions .",
    "this perception is incorrect .",
    "for one thing , in string theory one knows that the gauge couplings become unified at the string scale @xmath40 , irrespective of the existence of a unified gauge group at this scale . also ,",
    "if one focuses on any given string model , in principle all model parameters are explicitly calculable , in particular the supergravity khler and gauge kinetic functions and the yukawa couplings .",
    "thus , in specific string models one should be able to calculate _ all _ of the standard model and mssm parameters .",
    "consequences of the unparalleled calculability of string models include that the supersymmetry - breaking parameters should typically be _ not _ universal , and that the top - quark mass should be large @xmath41 .",
    "another feature of many supersymmetric models is the existence of a discrete _ r - parity _ symmetry which implies that real supersymmetric particles are always produced in pairs .",
    "that is , they can not appear as intermediate ( virtual ) states in tree - level processes involving only external standard model particles ( , in @xmath42 )",
    ". they can first appear in such processes at the loop level , and therefore their indirect effects are naturally suppressed .",
    "r - parity also implies the existence of a new stable particle : the _ lightest supersymmetric particle _ ( lsp ) .",
    "this particle has important cosmological consequences , since in large regions of parameter space it can account for the all - pervading ( cold ) dark matter in the universe .",
    "supersymmetric particles are being actively searched for at several experimental facilities . at the tevatron",
    "the strongly - interacting gluinos and squarks have been the long - time target in the @xmath43 collisions , but the kinematical reach of the collider has been nearly reached .",
    "this has prompted the search for particles with feebler interaction strengths , but which could still be produced because of their lighter masses , such as the weakly - interacting gauginos .",
    "a proposed high - luminosity upgrade of the tevatron would be particularly sensitive to the gaugino signal . at lep  1 ( 19891995 ) ,",
    "the large number of @xmath4 bosons produced ( @xmath44 million ) has ruled out the existence of new particles with unsuppressed couplings to the @xmath4 and with masses below @xmath45 .",
    "this result has constrained the masses of most supersymmetric particles .",
    "the search for the higgs boson at lep  1 ( @xmath46 ) has also constrained the higgs bosons of supersymmetric models . the lep energy upgrade ( lep  2 ) should push these limits even further starting in 1996 . more realistically , cern s large hadron collider ( lhc ) ( ca .",
    "2004 ) should provide definitive evidence for low - energy supersymmetry or , if no supersymmetric particles are observed , render it unappealing . once supersymmetry is established , a dedicated electron - positron linear collider would be ideal for what has been called  sparticle spectroscopy . \"",
    "indirect searches for supersymmetric particles are a useful complement to direct searches .",
    "the recently observed @xmath47 loop process at cornell s electron - positron storage ring by the cleo collaboration , puts important constraints on the supersymmetric parameter space .",
    "the upcoming anomalous magnetic moment of the muon ( @xmath482 ) experiment at brookhaven should also prove to be a stringent test of supersymmetric models .",
    "finally , as the presumed main component of the galactic dark matter halo , the lsp is being searched for in various direct and indirect ways .      because of the intended nature of this review many details have been left out , and particular emphasis has been placed on developments that have occurred over the last decade . the reader is encouraged to consult the standard accounts @xcite , as well as a number of recent detailed reviews on the subjects of supersymmetric model - building @xcite , supersymmetry phenomenology @xcite , and supersymmetric dark matter @xcite .",
    "i should also point out that due to lack of space and expertise , the more formal topics of supersymmetric theories have been left uncovered .",
    "a particularly glaring omission pertains to the large and relatively recent body of literature on exact results in supersymmetric gauge theories and the rapidly evolving topic of superstring dualities ; for recent reviews see refs .",
    "@xcite and @xcite respectively .",
    "as discussed in sec .  [ sec : intro ] ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : bigpicture ] ) , our first step away from the standard model consists of introducing low - energy supersymmetry .",
    "supersymmetry is a space - time symmetry , as are the well - known lorentz and poincar symmetries . under the poincar group particles",
    "are labelled by their mass and their spin .",
    "the mass can be any positive real number or zero , whereas the spin must be integer or half - integer .",
    "these space - time symmetries are distinct from internal symmetries ( such as gauge symmetries ) , which do not change the mass or spin of a particle but can change its internal quantum numbers ( such as electric or color charge ) .",
    "conversely , the space - time symmetries do not change the internal quantum numbers of a particle .",
    "one says that space - time symmetries  commute \" with internal symmetries .",
    "supersymmetry , as a space - time symmetry , changes the spin of a particle ( but not its mass ) and leaves all its internal quantum numbers unchanged .",
    "there are various kinds of supersymmetric theories , depending on the number of different supersymmetry _ generators_.",
    "each of these generators can change the spin of a particle by half - a - unit . in building realistic models",
    "one only considers @xmath49 supersymmetry , , models with a single supersymmetry generator .",
    "the phenomenological problem of extended ( @xmath50 ) supersymmetries is that fermions with different chiralities get related by supersymmetry , a result which is incompatible with the left - handed nature of the electroweak interactions .",
    "two kinds of _ supermultiplets _ are mostly used in building supersymmetric models : the _ chiral supermultiplet _",
    "contains a chiral spin-@xmath51 fermion and a spin-0 scalar , whereas the _ vector supermultiplet _ contains a spin-1 vector boson and a majorana spin-@xmath51 fermion .",
    "these supermultiplets can accommodate all of the standard model particles and their superpartners .      the minimal supersymmetric standard model ( mssm ) @xcite is generally considered to be the closest one can get to the standard model , if one allows for the possibility of low - energy supersymmetry .",
    "this model is very general but has little predictive power , with more than 30 parameters required to fully describe it .",
    "nonetheless , it should contain any model obtained from the more constrained theories that we describe in the following sections . in the mssm ,",
    "each standard model particle is paired with a superpartner .",
    "the fermions ( quarks and leptons ) belong in chiral supermultiplets together with the spin-0 sfermions ( squarks and sleptons ) , whereas the gauge bosons ( photon , gluon , @xmath52 ) belong in vector multiplets together with the majorana spin-@xmath51 gauginos ( photino , gluino , wino , zino ) .",
    "finally , the higgs boson is paired with a spin-@xmath51 higgsino in a chiral multiplet .",
    "the novelty is that two higgs doublets are _ required _ in supersymmetric models , as we discuss shortly .",
    "the mssm particle content and notation are collected in table  [ table1 ] .    ' '' ''    .field content and notation in the minimal supersymmetric standard model ( mssm ) .",
    "arrows indicate fields that mix due to the yukawa interactions , and the corresponding physical fields that result . [",
    "cols=\"<,^,^,^,<,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     ' '' ''    in unified supergravity models with radiative electroweak breaking @xcite there are many predicted masses in terms of a few input parameters , entailing several mass relations .",
    "a particularly important one concerns the masses of the squarks of the first two generations . from eq .",
    "( [ eq : masses ] ) we see that for the squark masses of current interest ( @xmath53 ) , the second (  d - term \" ) contribution is small relative to the first one because the corresponding @xmath54 are large ( see table  [ table3 ] ) .",
    "thus , all squark masses are nearly degenerate and one usually talks about an average squark mass . on the other hand ,",
    "the top - squark masses are obtained by diagonalizing a @xmath55 matrix with off - diagonal entries proportional to the top - quark mass ( , @xmath56 ) , and thus the lightest eigenvalue ( @xmath57 ) can easily be much lighter than all the other squarks .",
    "in contrast , one does not usually talk about an average slepton mass because the corresponding @xmath54 coefficients are much smaller ( see table  [ table3 ] ) , making the sleptons typically lighter ( or even much lighter ) than the squarks .",
    "however , the sleptons can be as heavy as the squarks as long as the other relevant parameter ( @xmath58 ) is large enough .",
    "this spectrum of squark and slepton masses could in principle be measured accurately (  sparticle spectroscopy \" @xcite ) at a suitable facility , such as the planned @xmath59 next linear collider ( nlc ) @xcite or a recently proposed @xmath60 collider @xcite .    in a unified theory one",
    "also gets a relation among the gaugino masses @xmath61 where @xmath62 are the u(1 ) and su(2 ) gaugino masses , and @xmath63 is the gauge coupling at the unification scale .",
    "the first relation gives @xmath64 , whereas the second one gives @xmath65 , which is referred to by experimentalists as the  gut relation \" .",
    "in fact , these relations allow one to connect experiments at hadron colliders ( @xmath66 ) with experiments at @xmath59 colliders ( @xmath67 ) , and has been used to set a lower limit on the lightest neutralino mass @xmath68 @xcite . experimental verification or falsification of these mass relations",
    "will provide a direct window into the physics at the gut scale , in particular the gauge group and the gauge kinetic function .",
    "another kind of mass relation which follows in supergravity models concerns the chargino and neutralino masses @xcite : @xmath69 the degree of approximation implied by these mass relations varies somewhat from model to model .",
    "the origin of these mass relations can be traced back to the relatively large value of @xmath70 that follows from the radiative electroweak symmetry breaking mechanism .      to be concrete , in fig .",
    "[ fig : sleptonsgut ] we show the masses of the first- and second - generation sleptons ( @xmath71 , @xmath72,@xmath73 ) as a function of the gluino mass for three choices of @xmath74 ; and for @xmath75 ( straight lines ) and @xmath76 ( curved lines ) , as calculated from eq .",
    "( [ eq : masses ] ) using the numerical coefficients in table  [ table3 ] @xcite .",
    "this exercise is repeated in fig .",
    "[ fig : sleptonsgust ] for the string - inspired model which unifies at the string scale .",
    "perhaps the most interesting feature of these figures is the implied lower bound on the gluino mass from the presently known lower bounds on the slepton masses from lep  1 data ( @xmath77 ) . in particular the sneutrino mass is quite restrictive .",
    "these indirect lower bounds show that discovery of the gluino at the tevatron could not have occurred so far , as the experimental sensitivity has just recently reached the @xmath78 range . ) appears to still be allowed experimentally @xcite , although it may be theoretically disfavored @xcite . ] in fig .",
    "[ fig : squarks ] we present the analogous plots for the squark masses .",
    "note that the masses of these first- and second - generation squarks are nearly degenerate ( as indicated above ) with the main dependence embodied in the parameter @xmath58 .",
    "note also that for @xmath79 , we obtain @xmath80 , which is the region in the @xmath81 plane of greatest experimental sensitivity . these figures also show that unless @xmath82 , the slepton masses are expected to be much lighter than the squark masses . from eqs .",
    "( [ eq : gauginos ] ) and ( [ eq : chnt ] ) one can show that @xmath83 and therefore the weakly - interacting charginos and neutralinos are much lighter than the strongly interacting squarks and gluino . moreover , if one imposes an upper limit on the squark and gluino masses of @xmath84 , the corresponding upper limit on the lighter chargino and neutralinos is under @xmath85 .",
    "we should also comment on the higgs - boson mass spectrum . because of the constraints from radiative electroweak symmetry breaking @xcite , which effectively link the sparticle and higgs sectors of the theory , as the supersymmetry - breaking scale is raised , the lightest higgs boson mass ( @xmath86 ) approaches its asymptotic value , as determined by the one - loop expression in eq .",
    "( [ eq : mhloop ] ) . for @xmath87",
    "one obtains @xmath20 .",
    "the remaining higgs bosons ( @xmath88 ) acquire a mass close to @xmath70 , and decouple from the fermions and gauge bosons ( their couplings are suppressed ) . moreover , the couplings of the lightest higgs boson ( @xmath89 ) to fermions and gauge bosons approach those of the standard model higgs boson in this limit . therefore , it becomes rather difficult to distinguish between these flavors of higgs bosons , except for new supersymmetric decays of @xmath89 into the lightest supersymmetric particle ( @xmath90 ) , which will erode the preferred @xmath91 mode when kinematically allowed .",
    "the most basic experimental predictions of supersymmetric models , , the type of particles to be found and their coupling strengths , are to a great extent fixed simply by the presence of supersymmetry . however , a quantification of supersymmetry breaking is essential to determine the masses of the superparticles , and therefore their discovery windows at experimental facilities . unless one is dealing with the straight mssm , where all superparticle masses are to be taken as independent parameters ( something that is usually not done in practice anyway ) , the various levels of theoretical input that we have discussed above lead to a vast number of _ correlated _ experimental predictions .",
    "the popular models based on universal soft - supersymmetry - breaking can be described in terms of only four parameters .",
    "more detailed models require even less parameters , and in principle no parameters .",
    "one can search for supersymmetry directly at collider experiments such as fermilab s proton - antiproton tevatron collider and its proposed upgrades , cern s electron - positron lep collider , cern s proposed large - hadron - collider ( lhc ) , the proposed next - linear - collider ( nlc ) , the proposed first - muon - collider ( fmc ) , etc . in the time frame of 19962006",
    "one expects to see the completion of the tevatron program ( runs ii and iii ) , the completion of the lep program , the start of the lhc program , and a definite timetable for the nlc ( and perhaps even the fmc ) .",
    "one can also search for supersymmetry through indirect effects which may affect the expected predictions of certain standard model processes .",
    "such precision measurents will be carried out at cleo ( @xmath47 ) , brookhaven ( g-2 ) , the tevatron and lhc ( rare top - quark decays ) , b - factories ( cp violation ) , proton decay experiments , ktev ( rare kaon decays ) , cryogenic dark matter detectors ( direct detection of dark matter ) and neutrino telescopes ( indirect detection of dark matter ) , neutrino oscillation experiments ( neutrino masses and mixings ) , etc .",
    "supersymmetric particles have been searched for since 1988 in @xmath43 collisions at @xmath92 by the cdf and d0 collaborations at the tevatron ( run i ) , with a total integrated luminosity @xmath93 at the end of 1995 .",
    "early on the preferred signature was that of jets plus missing energy , as predicted to occur in the production and decay of the strongly - interacting gluino and squarks ( @xmath94 ) .",
    "such signature has not been seen , and lower bounds of @xmath95 and @xmath96 have been set @xcite .",
    "more recently it has been realized that since the practical reach into squark and gluino masses has been nearly reached , one should also consider the production of weakly - interacting superparticles ( charginos and neutralinos : @xmath97 ) , which have smaller cross sections , but that are typically expected to be much lighter than squarks and gluino .",
    "this endeavor has benefited greatly from the existence of a nearly background - free decay of the chargino and neutralino into three charged leptons @xcite .",
    "chargino pair - production into dileptons has also been considered recently @xcite .",
    "preliminary results have since appeared @xcite . with the full data set for run i , it is expected that the tevatron could probe chargino masses as high as @xmath98 , in some regions of parameter space .",
    "trilepton and dilepton rates as a function of the chargino mass in a generic supergravity model @xcite are displayed in fig .",
    "[ fig : di - trilep ] .",
    "it should be noted that there are regions of parameter space where the trilepton rate is negligible , due to the presence of  spoiler \" modes that overwhelm the trilepton signal @xcite . the tevatron should also be able to set new lower bounds on light top squarks @xcite ;",
    "first experimental results have recently appeared @xcite .",
    "the tevatron is expected to be upgraded significantly with the commissioning of the main injector ( 1999 ) , which will allow accumulation of integrated luminosities of a few @xmath99 .",
    "supersymmetry searches will continue in this upgraded machine , with modest gains expected in the squark - gluino sector , but great improvements expected in the chargino - neutralino sector ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : di - trilep ] ) . yet further into the future ( 2002 )",
    "a high - luminosity tevatron may be in operation ( tev33 ) @xcite , entailing further exploration of the parameter space , mostly in the chargino - neutralino sector , and perhaps also in the higgs sector @xcite .",
    "( a doubling of the tevatron energy ( the ditevatron ) has also been considered @xcite . )",
    "around 2004 one expects the commissioning of the lhc , where the searches for gluino and squarks in 14 tev @xmath100 collisions will again take center stage .",
    "the lhc should reach easily into the tev mass region for these particles @xcite .",
    "other supersymmetry searches at the lhc are more uncertain , given the extremely high collision rate and multiple - interaction environment .",
    "detection of light higgs bosons may also pose a problem @xcite . in any event",
    ", the lhc is expected to be the definitive experiment for low - energy supersymmetry : either it will be observed there ( or before ) or it will be rendered rather unappealing as an extension of the standard model .",
    "soon after its commissioning in 1989 , lep  1 data on the total width of the @xmath4 boson showed that new particles with unsuppressed couplings to the @xmath4 boson had to had masses larger than @xmath45 @xcite .",
    "this limit applies to most supersymmetric particles .",
    "exceptions may include the lightest neutralinos @xcite and the lightest top - squark , whose coupling to the @xmath4 may be suppressed in some regions of parameter space .",
    "lep  1 also searched for the standard model higgs boson via the process : @xmath101 and obtained the limit @xmath102 @xcite .",
    "this limit tends to apply to the lightest higgs boson ( @xmath89 ) in supergravity models , especially when the sparticle spectrum is in the few hundred gev range @xcite .",
    "otherwise , the limit in the mssm is weaker ( @xmath103 , @xmath104 ) .",
    "the lep program is undergoing an energy upgrade , with the near - term goal of reaching the threshold for production of @xmath105 pairs in mid 1996 , and an eventual goal of reaching a center - of - mass energy of 192 gev by 1998 .",
    "an intermediate - energy step (  lep  1.5 \" ) with @xmath106 , accumulated a @xmath107 of data in november of 1995 , and was able to increase the lower bound on the chargino mass up to 64 gev ( in most regions of parameter space ) @xcite . with the full - energy upgrade ( @xmath108 ) , the lep  2 program should be able to push the lower limits on sparticle masses to near the kinematical limit @xcite .",
    "the higgs boson will be searched for via the process @xmath109 @xcite , with an expected reach strongly dependent on @xmath110 and the accumulated integrated luminosity ( , @xmath111 for @xmath112 of data ) @xcite .",
    "after sparticles are discovered and their masses approximately determined , the nlc should be able to follow a program of sparticle spectroscopy that will determine the spectrum of supersymmetric particles rather precisely @xcite .",
    "precision measurements at the @xmath4 pole have shown that the standard model works rather well ; deviations from it should be naturally suppressed , as is the case of supersymmetry .",
    "nonetheless , lep  1 has left us with two puzzles : the measured value of @xmath113 appears to be 10% higher @xcite than that inferred from low - energy measurements @xcite , and the @xmath114 observable appears inconsistent with the standard model prediction at the 3@xmath115 level @xcite . these discrepancies may disappear with a better understanding of the experimental procedures , or they may signal the presence of new physics beyond the standard model . supersymmetry offers some hope to explain both of them , but only if superparticles are very light @xcite .",
    "lep  2 searches will determine whether these particular regions of parameter space remain viable or not .",
    "in fact , lep  1.5 searches imply that the @xmath116 anomaly is unlikely to be due to the presence of light supersymmetric particles @xcite .    the measurement of the one - loop fcnc decay @xmath117 by the cleo collaboration @xcite agrees well with the standard model prediction and has constrained supersymmetric models in significant ways @xcite , as exemplified in fig .",
    "[ fig : bsg ] .",
    "in particular , large values of @xmath118 appear now disfavored .",
    "future indirect test of supersymmetry include refinements of the @xmath117 measurement ( although the theoretical prediction may not have the corresponding precision @xcite ) , and the new brookhaven @xmath119 experiment @xcite , which is expected to constrain supersymmetric models in significant ways @xcite ( especially for large values of @xmath118 ) once it starts to take data in 1996 .",
    "tests of cp violation are particularly relevant to supersymmetric models , as these models typically include new phases beyond that in the ckm matrix @xcite . the most stringent test has been that of @xmath120-@xmath121 mixing ( @xmath122 and @xmath123 ) , which demands that squarks of the same electric charge ( but different flavor ) should be nearly degenerate in mass @xcite .",
    "this requirement can be naturally accommodated in supergravity models with universal supersymmetry breaking masses at the unification scale , and provides an important restriction on novel string - based scenarios where universality is typically absent @xcite .",
    "rare kaon decays ( cp violating or not ) are also sensitive probes of supersymmetry @xcite .",
    "lepton - flavor - violating ( lfv ) processes are expected in unified models , as this standard model symmetry is typically violated in gut models @xcite .",
    "string models generally predict the violation of cpt symmetry @xcite because of their inherent lack of locality at very small distances .",
    "the @xmath120-@xmath121 system @xcite ( and perhaps also the @xmath124 and @xmath125 systems @xcite ) appears to be particularly sensitive .",
    "the above kind of processes have been studied at brookhaven , fermilab , and cern , and will continue in the future including new players such as ktev @xcite , the slac b factory @xcite , dafne @xcite , etc .",
    "proton decay is an unambiguous test of new physics at the unification scale @xcite , and has in the past excluded altogether the original su(5 ) model via the @xmath30 mode @xcite .",
    "the minimal su(5 ) supergravity model has also been challenged through the inherently supersymmetric @xmath126 mode @xcite .",
    "future tests will commence as soon as superkamiokande goes online in 1996 .",
    "the expected sensitivity should provide a definitive test of su(5 ) guts ( via @xmath127 ) @xcite .",
    "moreover , the traditional @xmath30 mode may constrain flipped su(5 ) , should the strong coupling @xmath128 settle near 0.110 @xcite .",
    "evidence for non - zero neutrino masses may constitute the first deviation from the standard model .",
    "unified models have a natural mechanism for producing such small masses ( the see - saw mechanism ) , and even provide detailed predictions for the pattern of neutrino masses and mixings @xcite .",
    "there is a plethora of presently ( homestake , kamiokande , sage , gallex ) or soon - to - be operating ( sno , superkamiokande , borexino ) solar neutrino detectors , atmospheric neutrino detectors ( kamiokande , imb , soudan ii ) , and neutrino - oscillation experiments ( lsnd , chorus , nomad , e803 ) , which are providing data that can be interpreted in this theoretical context .",
    "the data has so far been insufficient to declare the discovery of neutrino masses or neutrino oscillations , although the solar neutrino data appears to be most naturally explained by the msw mechanism @xcite of matter - enhanced oscillations in the sun @xcite with neutrino mass and mixing parameters that are readily obtained in guts .",
    "atmospheric neutrino data and the los alamos ( lsnd ) neutrino oscillation experiment @xcite are more difficult to interpret in this theoretical context @xcite .",
    "the theoretical situation should become more clear once enough data has been accumulated on each category of experiments to be able to assess their statistical significance .",
    "supersymmetric models that respect @xmath129 parity ( a popular and well motivated assumption ) possess a natural candidate for cold dark matter , the lightest supersymmetric particle , which must be neutral and colorless @xcite and is usually assumed to be the lightest neutralino .",
    "( the sneutrino may happen to be the lsp , but this dark matter candidate is severely constrained . ) such stable particle would populate the galactic halo and could be detected directly or indirectly @xcite .",
    "direct dectection experiments @xcite rely on energy deposited in cryogenic detectors after a direct nucleon - neutralino collision in the detector .",
    "indirect detection relies on the capture of neutralinos by the sun or earth @xcite , and their subsequent annihilation into ( among other things ) energetic neutrinos , which can be detected in underground or underwater facilities (  neutrino telescopes \" ) @xcite .",
    "both these detection mechanisms are quite promising @xcite and a number of facilities of both kinds are currently in operation or will soon be operating , including the stanford germanium detector , kamiokande and superkamiokande , macro , amanda , nestor , dumand , etc .",
    "the standard model of elementary particle physics has been subjected to intense experimental scrutiny over the last twenty years . with the advent of the tevatron and lep colliders",
    ", these tests have reached unprecedented precision . yet , in nearly all instances observations agree very well with theoretical expectations .",
    "this state - of - affairs indicates that whatever new physics may lie beyond the standard model , it will not be intertwined with it in any significant way . this is a very useful fact , as standard model processes will constitute the bulk of the events in searches for new physics at higher energies .",
    "however , because of the  purity \" of the standard model , these background processes will be reliably calculated , and the signals for new physics will be more easily extractable .",
    "such searches are underway and will reach new sensitivity levels in the near future , most notably with the lep  2 energy upgrade , the main injector tevatron upgrade , and in the long - term the large hadron collider ; and indirectly via searches for rare processes such as proton decay at superkamiokande and the anomalous magnetic moment of the muon at brookhaven .",
    "a very well motivated possibility for the type of new physics that one may encounter has been the subject of this review : supersymmetry . as we have discussed , supersymmetry is an underlying theme in the march towards ever increasing energy scales .",
    "in fact , it appears to be the only road that allows us to see the light at the end of the tunnel .",
    "there will always be alternatives , but they must all contend with the gauge hierarchy problem , and supersymmetry is the only known way of tackling it without giving up calculability .",
    "interestingly enough , despite all of the impetus with which these ideas have been pursued , direct evidence for the existence of supersymmetry is yet to be found .",
    "however , i believe that supersymmetry will not run away from us for much longer .",
    "in fact , our best models today indicate that the success of the standard model effectively pushes supersymmetry up to higher mass scales which are just now beginning to be explored experimentally .",
    "on the other hand , supersymmetry has received a great deal of indirect evidence over the last several years .",
    "most strikingly was the convergence of the precisely measured standard model gauge couplings at very high energies .",
    "this fact led to a revival of these ideas , including intense theoretical scrutiny of gauge and yukawa coupling unification in unified supergravity models .",
    "it has also been claimed that the two known experimental  anomalies \" in the standard model ",
    "the discrepancy between measurements of the strong coupling at lep and their counterparts at low energies , and the discrepancy between the measurement of and the standard model prediction for @xmath116  may reflect the presence of new physics and in particular the existence of light supersymmetric particles .",
    "another bit of indirect evidence comes from the discovery of the top quark with a mass @xmath130 .",
    "there is only one known theory where quark masses can be calculated , namely string theory . in string models",
    "the yukawa coupling that gives rise to the top - quark mass is naturally of the size needed to yield such  large \" quark masses .",
    "moreover , string models also explain the lightness of the remaining quark masses , as other yukawa couplings tend to be suppressed by stringy selection rules .",
    "thus , a large top - quark mass can only be understood in the context of string theory .",
    "furthermore , a large top - quark mass can only be predicted in the presence of supersymmetry , as one needs to connect stringy predictions at the planck scale with top - quark masses measured in the laboratory .",
    "string theory itself is undergoing a second revolution ( the first one occurred in 1984 with the establishment of string theory itself ) with many new relations being found among previously thought distinct types of string .",
    "strings also appear to be intimately connected with higher - dimensional  membranes \" , leading to the conjecture of a universal m - theory underlying all the different phases of strings .",
    "hopefully these developments will shed light onto the unresolved problems of supersymmetry breaking and the determination of the vacuum .",
    "in fact , further progress in supersymmetry model building should come from string models , as these provide us with the ability to calculate .",
    "supersymmetry will continue to have an ever expanding role in the physics of the very early universe , and its present - day manifestations .",
    "the observed minute anisotropies in the cosmic microwave background radiation show an imprint left early on , which points towards the idea of inflation where gut- and planck - scale physics play a major role .",
    "it has also become clear that most of the matter in the universe is invisible .",
    "moreover , conventional astrophysical explanations ( red dwarfs , brown dwarfs , etc . ) have been found to constitute only a small fraction of this  dark \" matter .",
    "supersymmetry comes in again by providing a natural candidate for such dark matter , which may in fact be detectable in the laboratory",
    ". + we should soon know whether supersymmetry is within our reach or not .",
    "this work has been supported in part by doe grant de - fg05 - 93-er-40717 .",
    "999 f. abe ,  ( cdf collaboration ) , .",
    "p.  renton , rapporteur talk at the international conference on high energy physics , beijing ( august 1995 ) , oxford preprint ounp-95 - 20 ( 1995 ) ; lep electroweak working group , lepewwg/95 - 02 ( august 1995 ) .",
    "cdf collaboration , f.  abe et al .",
    ", ; d0 collaboration , s.  abachi et al . , .",
    "see , l. durand , j. johnson , and , ; a. ghinculov , , and references therein .",
    "h. nilles , ; h. haber and g. kane , ; a. lahanas and , ; g.  g.  ross , _ grand unified theories _",
    "( benjamin cummings , 1984 ) .",
    "m. drees and s. martin , .",
    "h. baer , , .",
    "g. jungman , m. kamionkowski , and k. griest , ; a. dolgov , .",
    "k. intriligator and n. seiberg , . for",
    "a review see j. schwarz , .",
    "s. dimopoulos and h. georgi , ; n. sakai , z. phys . c*11 * ( 1981 ) 153 .",
    "j. ellis , j.s .",
    "hagelin , d.v .",
    "nanopoulos , k.a .",
    "olive and m. srednicki , . c.  s.  aulakh and r.  n.  mohapatra ,",
    "; l.  j.  hall and m.  suzuki , ; s.  dawson , ; s. dimopoulos and l.  hall , ; l.  hall , ; h.  dreiner and g.  ross , ; v. barger , m. berger , p. ohmann , and r. phillips , ; h. baer , c. kao , and x. tata , .",
    "m. drees , ; j. ellis , j.f .",
    "gunion , h.e .",
    "haber , l. roszkowski and f. zwirner , ; j.p .",
    "derendinger and c.a .",
    "savoy , ; l. durand and , and ; u. ellwanger , m. rausch de trautenberg and c.a .",
    "savoy , and z. phys . c*67 * ( 1995 ) 665 ; s.f .",
    "king and p.l .",
    "y. okada , m. yamaguchi , and t. yanagida , prog .",
    "85 * ( 1991 ) 1 and ; j. ellis , g. ridolfi , and f. zwirner , and ; h. haber and r. hempfling , .",
    "s. abachi ,  ( d0 collaboration ) , ; f. abe ,  ( cdf collaboration ) , .",
    "see , , d. decamp ,  ( aleph collaboration ) , phys .",
    "reports * 216 * ( 1992 ) 253 .",
    "see , m.  acciarri ,  ( l3 collaboration ) , and references therein .",
    "j. feng , n. polonsky , and s. thomas , and references therein . for an updated review see a. sopczak , .",
    "j.  ellis , s.  ferrara and d.  v.  nanopoulos , ; w.  bchmuller and d.  wyler , ; j.  polchinski and m.  b.  wise , ; f.  del aguila , m.  b.  gavela , j.  a.  grifols and a.  mendez , ; r. arnowitt , , and , ; y.  kizukuri and n.  oshimo , and ; s.  bertolini and f.  vissani , ; t.  inui , y.  mimura , n.  sakai and t.  sasaki , ; s. abel , w. cottingham , and i. whittingham , .",
    "u. amaldi , , ; g. costa , , .",
    "j. ellis , s. kelley , and d. v. nanopoulos , phys .",
    "b * 249 * ( 1990 ) 441 and phys .",
    "b * 260 * ( 1991 ) 131 ; p. langacker and m. luo , phys .",
    "d * 44 * ( 1991 ) 817 ; u. amaldi , w. de boer , and h. frstenau , phys .",
    "b * 260 * ( 1991 ) 447 ; f. anselmo , l. cifarelli , a. peterman , and a. zichichi , nuovo cim .",
    "* 104a * ( 1991 ) 1817 .",
    "u. amaldi , w. de boer , p. frampton , h. furstenau , and j. liu , . j. ellis , s. kelley and d. v. nanopoulos , and ; r. barbieri and l. hall , ; j. hisano , h. murayama , and t. yanagida , ; k. hagiwara and y. yamada , ; f. anselmo , l. cifarelli , a. peterman , and a. zichichi , nuovo cim .",
    "* 105a * ( 1992 ) 1025 ; p. langacker and n. polonsky , ; m. carena , s. pokorski , and c. wagner , .",
    "m. bastero - gil and j. perez - mercader , and ; a. faraggi and b. grinstein , ; p. chankowski , z. pluciennik , and s. pokorski , ; l. clavelli and p. coulter , and ; j. bagger , k. matchev , and d. pierce , ; p. langacker and n. polonsky , . h. georgi and s. glashow , .",
    "a. masiero , , k. tamvakis , and t. yanagida , ; b. grinstein , .",
    "j. hisano , t. moroi , k. tobe , and t. yanagida , ;  and , phys .",
    "d ( in press ) .",
    "k. inoue , a. kakuto , and t. takano , prog .",
    "* 75 * ( 1986 ) 664 ; a. anselm and a. johansen , ; r. barbieri , g. dvali , and a. strumia , ; r. barbieri , g. dvali , and m. moretti , ; r. barbieri , , ; z. berezhiani , c. csaki , and l. randall , ; z. berezhiani , .",
    "d. ring , s. urano , and r. arnowitt , ; t. dasgupta , p. mamales , and p. nath , . m. shifman , and .",
    "particle data group , .",
    "s. weinberg , ; n. sakai and t. yanagida , .",
    "j. ellis , , and s. rudaz , ; b. campbell , j. ellis , and , ; k. enqvist , a. masiero , and , ; p. nath , a. chamseddine , and r. arnowitt , ; p. nath and r. arnowitt , . j. hisano , h. murayama , and t. yanagida , ; r. arnowitt and p. nath , ; p. nath and r. arnowitt , ; r. arnowitt and p. nath , ; , , and h. pois , ; , , h. pois , and a. zichichi , ; j. hisano , t. moroi , k. tobe , and t. yanagida , .",
    "the original papers on this subject include , m. chanowitz , j. ellis , and m. gaillard , ; a. j. buras , j. ellis , m. k. gaillard , d. v. nanopoulos , ; d. v. nanopoulos and d. a. ross , , , and . j. ellis , s. kelley , and , ; h. arason , , , , ; j. ellis , s. kelley and d. v. nanopoulos , ; a. giveon , l. hall , and u. sarid , ; s. kelley , , and , ; s. dimopoulos , l. hall , and s. raby , , ; g. anderson , s. dimopoulos , l. hall , and s. raby , ; v. barger , m. berger , and p. ohman , ; s. naculich , ; p. langacker and n. polonsky , ; c. kolda , l. roszkowski , j. wells , and g. kane , . j. bagger , k. matchev , and d. pierce , and references therein .",
    "h. georgi , aip conference proceedings no.23 , new york 1975 , p. 575 ; h. fritzsch and p. minkowski , ann .",
    "* 93 * ( 1975 ) 193 ; h. georgi and , and .",
    "see , k. babu and s. barr , , , ; d. lee and r. mohapatra , and ; k. babu and r. mohapatra , .",
    "a. nelson and l. randall , ; m. carena , s. pokorski , m. olechowski , and c. wagner , ; r. ratazzi , u. sarid , and l. hall , ; f. borzumati , m. olechowski , and s. pokorski , ; m. olechowski and s. pokorski , . s. barr , , ; j.  derendinger , j. kim , and , .",
    "i. antoniadis , j. ellis , j. hagelin , and , ; j. ellis , j. hagelin , s. kelley , and , nucl .",
    "b * 311 *  ( 1989 )  1 .",
    "for reviews see , in ",
    "les rencontres de physique de la vallee daoste : proceedings : supernova 1987a , one year later : results and perspectives in particle physics , \" edited by m. greco ( editions frontieres , 1988 ) , p. 795 ; , surveys  h.  e.  phys .",
    "* 8 * ( 1995 ) 135 ( ) ;  and , .",
    "j. ellis , , and , .",
    "j. ellis , , and k. olive , ; j. ellis , , , and k. olive , .",
    "j. ellis , , and , .",
    "r. arnowitt , a. chamseddine , and p. nath , ; r. barbieri , s. ferrara , and c. savoy , ; j. ellis , , and k. tamvakis , . for",
    "a review see s. weinberg , rev .",
    "* 61 * ( 1989 ) 1 .",
    "see , m. ozer and m. taha , and ; k. freese , , ; p. peebles and b. ratra , astrophys .",
    "j. * 325 * ( 1988 ) l17 ; w. chen and y. wu , ; m. abdel - rahman , ; j. carvalho , j. lima , and i. waga , .",
    "see , g. efstathiou , w. sutherland , and s. maddox , nature * 348 * ( 1990 ) 705 .",
    "i. antoniadis , c. bachas , j. ellis , and , , , and . for",
    "a review see  in proceedings of the international school of astroparticle physics , harc , january 1991 , edited by  ( world scientific , singapore 1991 ) , p.  183 .",
    "j. ellis , n. mavromatos , and , in _ recent advances in the superworld _ , proceedings of the harc workshop , edited by  and ( world scientific , singapore 1994 ) , p. 3 and references therein .",
    "see also ,  and , and ( to appear in mod .",
    "phys . lett .",
    "e. cremmer , s. ferrara , c. kounnas , and , .",
    "j. ellis , a. lahanas , , and k. tamvakis , .",
    "j. ellis , c. kounnas , and , and .",
    "for a review see a. b. lahanas and d. v. nanopoulos , phys .",
    "* 145 * ( 1987 )  1 .",
    "s.  ferrara , c.  kounnas , m.  porrati , and f.  zwirner , and ; j. burton , m. gaillard , and v. jain , .",
    ", , and k. yuan , . s.  ferrara , c.  kounnas , and f.  zwirner , .  and , . c. kounnas , i. pavel , and f. zwirner , ; s.  kelley , , , and , ; a. brignole and f. zwirner , ; c. kounnas , i. pavel , g. ridolfi , and f. zwirner , ; a. brignole , f. feruglio , and f. zwirner , ; g. leontaris and n. tracas , ; j. hagelin , s. kelley , and s. rawal , . j. bagger , e. poppitz , and l. randall , .",
    "c.  kounnas and m.  porrati , ; m.  porrati and f.  zwirner , ; c.  kounnas and b.  rostand , ; i.  antoniadis , . i. antoniadis , c. bachas , d. lewellen , and t. tomaras , . i. antoniadis , c. muoz , and m. quiros , ; i. antoniadis and k. benakli , ; i. antoniadis , k. benakli , and m. quiros , . j .-",
    "derendinger , l.e .",
    "ibez and h.p .",
    "nilles , ; m.  dine , r.  rohm , n.  seiberg and e.  witten , ; c. kounnas and m. porrati , .",
    "a.  font , l.  ibaez , d.  lust and f.  quevedo , ; s.  ferrara , n.  magnoli , t.  taylor and g.  veneziano , ; h .-",
    "nilles and m.  olechowski , ; p.  binetruy and m.k .",
    "gaillard , ; d. lust and t. taylor , ; s. kalara , , and , ; b. de carlos , j.a .",
    "casas , c. muoz , ; v.  kaplunovsky and j.  louis , .",
    "for a recent review see f. quevedo , . , m. green , j. schwarz , and e. witten ( cambridge university press , 1987 ) . , ed . by m.",
    "dine ( north - holland , amsterdam , 1988 ) ; _ superstring construction _",
    ", ed . by a.n .",
    "schellekens ( north - holland , amsterdam , 1989 ) .",
    "z. bern and d. kosower , , , ; z. bern , l. dixon , and d. kosower , . for",
    "a review see z. bern , g. chalmers , l. dixon , d. dunbar , and d. kosower , .",
    "m. green and j. schwarz , .",
    "d. gross , j. harvey , e. martinec , and r. rohm , , , and .",
    "p. candelas , g. horowitz , a. strominger , and e. witten , .",
    "l. dixon , j. harvey , c. vafa , and e. witten , and .",
    "k. narain , m. sarmadi , and c. vafa , .",
    "i. antoniadis , c. bachas , and c. kounnas , nucl . phys .",
    "b * 289 * ( 1987 ) 87 ; i. antoniadis and c. bachas , nucl .",
    "b * 298 * ( 1988 ) 586 ; h. kawai , d.c .",
    "lewellen , and s.h .- h .",
    "tye , phys .",
    "* 57 * ( 1986 ) 1832 ; phys .",
    "d * 34 * ( 1986 ) 3794 ; nucl .",
    "b * 288 * ( 1987 ) 1 ; r. bluhm , l. dolan , and p. goddard , nucl .",
    "b * 309 * ( 1988 ) 330 ; h. dreiner , j. l. lopez , d. v. nanopoulos , and d. reiss , nucl .",
    "b * 320 * ( 1989 ) 401 . for a review",
    "see , p. goddard and d. olive , .",
    "d. lewellen , ; j. a. schwarz , .",
    "a. font , l. ibez , and f. quevedo , .",
    "j. ellis , j. lopez , and , .",
    "s. chaudhuri , s. chung , g. hockney , and j. lykken , ; g. cleaver , ; s. chaudhuri , g. hockney , and j. lykken , .",
    "g. aldazabal , a. font , l. ibaez , and a. uranga , and .",
    "z. kakushadze and s .- h .",
    "j. ellis , proceedings of the trieste superstring 1988 school , p.  375 .",
    "p. ginsparg , .",
    "v. kaplunovsky , and .",
    "l. dixon , v. kaplunovsky and j. louis , nucl .",
    "b * 329 * ( 1990 ) 27 .",
    "k. dienes and a. faraggi , and .",
    "i. antoniadis , e. gava , k. narain , and t. taylor , .",
    "i. antoniadis , j. ellis , s. kelley , and , ; s. kelley , , and , ; d. bailin and a. love , ; g. leontaris , .",
    "l. ibez , d. lust , and g. ross , ; l. ibez and d. lust , .",
    "a. font , l. ibez , d. lst , and f. quevedo , ; m. cveti , , .  and , .",
    "n. v. krasnikov , ; l. dixon , in proc . of the rice meeting , edited by b. bonner and h. miettinen ( world scientific , 1990 ) , p.  811",
    "; j. casas , z. lalak , c. muoz , and g. ross , .",
    "a. font , l. ibaez , d. lust , and f. quevedo , .",
    "b. greene , k. kirklin , p. miron , and g. ross , , and .",
    "l. ibez , h. nilles , and f. quevedo , ; l. ibez , j. mas , h. nilles , and f. quevedo , ; a. font , l. ibez , f. quevedo , and a. sierra , .",
    "i. antoniadis , j. ellis , j. hagelin , and , ;  and , , , , and . , , and k. yuan , .",
    "i. antoniadis , g. leontaris and j. rizos , .",
    "a. faraggi , d.v .",
    "nanopoulos and k. yuan , ; a. faraggi , , , and . s. kalara , j. lopez and d.v .",
    "nanopoulos , .",
    "m. dine , n. seiberg , and e. witten , .",
    ", , and a. zichichi , .",
    "p. ramond , r. roberts , and g. ross , ; l. ibaez and g. ross , ; p. binetruy and p. ramond , ; v. jain and r. shrock , .",
    "d. gross and j. sloan , nucl .",
    "b * 291 * ( 1987 ) 41 ; d. lst , s. theisen and g. zoupanos , nucl .",
    "b * 296 * ( 1988 ) 800 ; j. lauer , d. lst and s. theisen , nucl .",
    "b * 304 * ( 1988 ) 236 .",
    "s. kalara , , and , .",
    "l. dixon , v. kaplunovsky , and j. louis , ; i. antoniadis , k. narain , and t. taylor , ; j. derendinger , s. ferrara , c. kounnas , and f. zwirner , .",
    "e. witten , .  and ,",
    "b ( in press ) . for a review",
    "see , riv .",
    "* 17 * no . 10 ( 1994 ) 1 .",
    "see , s. martin and m. vaughn , ; y. yamada , and references therein .",
    "l. ibez and g. ross , ; k. inoue , , prog .",
    "68 ( 1982 ) 927 ; l. ibez , and ; h. p. nilles , ; j. ellis , , and k. tamvakis , ; j. ellis , j. hagelin , , and k. tamvakis , ; l. alvarez - gaum , j. polchinski , and m. wise , ; l. ibaz and c. lpez , and ; c. kounnas , a. lahanas , , and m. quirs , and c. kounnas , a. lahanas , , and m. quirs , . v. kaplunovsky and j. louis ,",
    "a. brignole , l.e .",
    "ibaez and c. muoz , ; a. brignole , l.e .",
    "ibaez , c. muoz , and c. scheich , .",
    "j. e. kim and h. p. nilles , , , and ; g. giudice and a. masiero , ;  and , ; e. chun , j. kim , and h. nilles , ; j. casas and c. muoz , .",
    "e. floratos and g. leontaris , and references therein .",
    "works in the lep era include : g. gamberini , g. ridolfi , and f. zwirner , ; j. ellis and f. zwirner , ; s. kelley , , , h. pois , and k. yuan , and ; g. ross and r. roberts , ; m. drees and m.m .",
    "nojiri , ; k. inoue , m. kawasaki , m. yamaguchi , and t. yanagida , ; r. arnowitt and p. nath , ; p. nath and r. arnowitt , ; r. roberts and l. roszkowski , ; m. olechowski and s. pokorski , ; b. de carlos and j. casas , ; m. carena , l. clavelli , d. matalliotakis , h. nilles , and c. wagner , ; g. leontaris , ; s. martin and p. ramond , ; d. castao , e. piard , and p. ramond , ; m. carena , m. olechowski , s. pokorski , and c. wagner , ; v. barger , m. berger , and p. ohmann , ; g. kane , c. kolda , l. roszkowski , and j. wells , ; w. de boer , r. ehret , and d. kazakov , z. phys . c*67 * ( 1995 ) 647 .",
    "a. faraggi , j. hagelin , s. kelley , and , .",
    "j. feng , m. peskin , h. murayama , and x. tata , and references therein . for",
    "a review see v. barger , , .",
    "l. roszkowski , .",
    "nath and r. arnowitt , .",
    ", , and a. zichichi , .",
    "r. barbieri , j. louis , and m. moretti , and ( e ) ; , , and a. zichichi , .",
    ", , h. pois , x. wang , and a. zichichi , .",
    "i. antoniadis , j. ellis , and , ; l. clavelli , ; l. clavelli , p. coulter , and k. yuan , ; j. ellis , , and d. ross , . , , and x. wang , ; m. diaz , ; g. farrar , . j. ellis , j. hagelin , , and m. srednicki , ; h. baer and x. tata , ; h. baer , k. hagiwara , and x. tata , , ; p. nath and r. arnowitt , ; r. barbieri , f. caravaglios , m. frigeni , and m. mangano , .",
    "h. baer and x. tata , ; , , x. wang , and a. zichichi , ; h. baer , c. kao , and x. tata , ; h. baer , c. chen , c. kao , and x. tata , .",
    "t. kamon , , p. mcintyre , and j. white , .",
    ", , x. wang , and a. zichichi , .",
    "s. abachi ,  ( d0 collaboration ) , .",
    "h. baer , j. sender , and x. tata , .",
    "s. abachi ,  ( d0 collaboration ) , ",
    "search for light top squarks in @xmath43 collisions at @xmath92 \" , december 1995 ( submitted to phys .",
    "report on the tev-2000 study group on future electroweak physics at the tevatron , edited by d. amidei and r. brock , d0 note 2589 and cdf note 3177 .",
    "a. stange , w. marciano , and s. willenbrock , and ; j. gunion and t. han , .",
    "see , h. baer , c. chen , f. paige , and x. tata , and , and references therein .",
    "see , z. kunszt and f. zwirner , ; h. baer , m. bisset , c. kao , and x. tata , ; g. kane , g. kribs , s. martin , j. wells , and references therein . l. rolandi , h. dijkstra , d. strickland and g. wilson , representing the aleph , delphi , l3 and opal collaborations , joint seminar on the first results from lep  1.5 , cern , dec .",
    "12th , 1995 .",
    "see , m. chen , c. dionisi , m. martinez , and x. tata , ; , , h. pois , x. wang , and a. zichichi , ; h. baer , m. brhlik , r. munroe , x. tata , ; s. ambrosiano and b. mele , ; m. diaz and s. king , . j. ellis , m. k. gaillard , and , .",
    "see , a. sopczak , .",
    "s. bethke , aachen preprint pitha-95 - 14 ( 1995 ) , to appear in proc .",
    "30-th rencontre de moriond , qcd and high - energy hadronic interactions .",
    "g. kane , r. stuart , and j. wells , .",
    "j.  d.  wells , c.  kolda , and g.  l.  kane , ; d.  garcia , r.  jimenez , and j.  sola , ; d.  garcia and j.  sola , ; x. wang , , and , ; j. wells and g. kane , .",
    "j. ellis , , and , , .",
    "m.  s.  alam ,  ( cleo collaboration ) , ; t.e .",
    "browder and k. henscheid , to appear in _ progress in nuclear and particle physics _ , vol .",
    "s. bertolini , f. borzumati , a. masiero , and g. ridolfi , ; n. oshimo , ; r. barbieri and g. giudice , ; , , and g.  t.  park , ; r. garisto and j. n. ng , ; y. okada , ; m. diaz , ; f. borzumati , z. phys .",
    "c63 ( 1994 ) 291 ; s. bertolini and f. vissani , z. phys . c*67 * ( 1995 ) 513 ; , , x. wang , and , ; t. goto and y. okada , prog .",
    "* 94 * ( 1995 ) 407 .",
    "a. buras , m. misiak , m. mnz , and s. pokorski , ; m. ciuchini , , . m. may , in aip conf . proc .",
    "176 ( aip , new york , 1988 ) p. 1168 ; b. l. roberts , z. phys . *",
    "c56 * ( 1992 ) s101 . , , and x. wang , ; u. chattopadhyay and p. nath , ; t. moroi , ; and references therein . m. dugan , b. grinstein , and l. hall , ; l. hall , a. kostelecky , and s. raby , .",
    "see , j. hagelin , s. kelley , t. tanaka , and references therein .",
    "j. louis and y. nir , . for",
    "a review see l. littenberg and g. valencia , ann .",
    "nucl . part .",
    "* 43 * ( 1993 ) 729 .",
    "see , f. gabbiani and a. masiero , ; a. faraggi , , , and k. yuan , ; t. kosmas , g. leontaris , j. vergados , ; r. barbieri and l. hall , ; r. barbieri , l. hall , and a. strumia , . for",
    "a review see t. kosmas , g. leontaris , j. vergados , prog .",
    ". phys . * 33 * ( 1994 ) 397 .",
    "j. ellis , j.s .",
    "hagelin , d.v .",
    "nanopoulos and m. srednicki , ; a. kostelecky and r. potting , ; j. ellis , n. e. mavromatos and d.v .",
    "nanopoulos , .",
    "j. ellis , n. e. mavromatos and d.v .",
    "nanopoulos , and cern - th.6755/92 ; p. huet and m. peskin , ; j. ellis , , n. mavromatos , and , phys . rev .",
    "d ( in press ) ; r. adler , , .",
    "a. kostelecky and r. potting , ; d. collady and a. kostelecky , . k. ariska , , ktev design report , fn-850 ( 1992 ) .",
    "see , p. oddone , lbl-37307 .",
    "dafne physics handbook , edited by l. maiani , l. pancheri and n. paver ( infn , frascati , 1992 ) . for a review see p. langacker , in _ beyond the standard model iv _ , edited by j. gunion , t. han , and j. ohnemus ( world scientific , 1995 ) , p.  487 .",
    "l. wolfenstein , ; s. mikheyev and a. smirnov , sov .",
    "* 42 * ( 1986 ) 913 .",
    "see , n. hata and p. langacker , and references therein . c. athanassopoulos ,  ( lsnd collaboration ) , ; j. hill , .",
    "see , z. berezhiani and r. mohapatra , and references therein .",
    "w.  goodman and e.  witten , ; k.  griest , ; ; r.  barbieri , m.  frigeni and g.f .",
    "giudice , ; m.  srednicki and r.  watkins , ; g.f .",
    "giudice and e.  roulet , ; g. gelmini , p. gondolo , and e. roulet , ; m. kamionkowski , ; r. flores , k. olive , and d. thomas , ; j.  ellis and r.  flores , ; ; ; m. drees and m. nojiri , ; a. bottino , , astropart . phys . * 2 * ( 1994 ) 77 ; v. bednyakov , h.  klapdor - kleingrothaus , and s. kovalenko , and .",
    "w.h . press and d.n .",
    "spergel , astrophys .",
    "j. * 296 * ( 1985 ) 679 ; a. gould , astrophys . j. * 321 * ( 1987 ) 560 , 571 ; * 328 * ( 1988 ) 919 ; * 388 * ( 1992 ) 338 ; j. silk , k. olive , and m. srednicki , phys . rev .",
    "* 55 * ( 1985 ) 257 ; t. gaisser , g. steigman , and s. tilav , phys .",
    "d * 34 * ( 1986 ) 2206 ; j. hagelin , k. ng , and k. olive , phys .",
    "b * 180 * ( 1987 ) 375 ; m. srednicki , k. olive , and j. silk , nucl .",
    "b * 279 * ( 1987 ) 804 ; k. ng , k. olive , and m. srednicki , phys .",
    "b * 188 * ( 1987 ) 138 ; k. olive and m. srednicki , phys .",
    "b * 205 * ( 1988 ) 553 ; l. krauss , m. srednicki , and f. wilczek , phys .",
    "d * 33 * ( 1986 ) 2079 ; k. freese , phys . lett .",
    "* 167b * ( 1986 ) 295 ; s. ritz and d. seckel , nucl .",
    "b * 304 * ( 1988 ) 877 .",
    "giudice and e. roulet , nucl .",
    "b * 316 * ( 1989 ) 429 ; g. gelmini , p. gondolo , and e. roulet , nucl .",
    "b * 351 * ( 1991 ) 623 ; m. kamionkowski , phys .",
    "rev d * 44 * ( 1991 ) 3021 ; m. mori ,  ( kamiokande collaboration ) , phys .",
    "b * 270 * ( 1991 ) 89 ; a. bottino , v. de alfaro , n. fornengo , g. mignola , and s. scopel , phys . lett .",
    "b * 265 * ( 1991 ) 57 , astroparticle phys .",
    "* 1 * ( 1992 ) 61 ; f. halzen , m. kamionkowski , and t. stelzer , phys .",
    "rev d * 45 * ( 1992 ) 4439 ; r.  gandhi , , , k. yuan , and a. zichichi , .",
    "r.  arnowitt and p.  nath , , , , and ; x. wang , , and , ; f. borzumati , m. drees , and m. nojiri , ; m. kamionkowski , k. griest , g. jungman , and b. sadoulet , ; e. diehl , g. kane , c. kolda , and j. wells , ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the physics of supersymmetry is reviewed from the perspective of physics at ever increasing energies . </S>",
    "<S> starting from the minimal supersymmetric extension of the standard model at the electroweak scale , we proceed to higher energies seeking to understand the origin of the many model parameters . </S>",
    "<S> supersymmetric grand unification , supergravity , and superstrings are introduced sequentially , and their contribution to the sought explanations is discussed . </S>",
    "<S> typical low - energy supersymmetric models are also presented , along with their possible experimental consequences via direct and indirect processes at high - energy physics experimental facilities .     </S>",
    "<S> s-6pt/ h-7.5pt/ # 1re#1 # 1im#1 # 1tr#1  = 11 # 1#2 # 1#1| # 1| # 1 # 1#1 # 1#1 versim#1#2 # 1@xmath0 # 1@xmath1 11 # 1#2 /#1#1 - 6pt/ # 1#2#3nucl . </S>",
    "<S> phys . </S>",
    "<S> b * # 1 * ( 19#2 ) # 3 # 1#2#3phys . lett . </S>",
    "<S> b * # 1 * ( 19#2 ) # 3 # 1#2#3phys . rev . </S>",
    "<S> d * # 1 * ( 19#2 ) # 3 # 1#2#3phys . </S>",
    "<S> rev . </S>",
    "<S> lett . * </S>",
    "<S> # 1 * ( 19#2 ) # 3 # 1#2#3phys . rep . * </S>",
    "<S> # 1 * ( 19#2 ) # 3 # 1#2#3mod . </S>",
    "<S> phys . </S>",
    "<S> lett . a * # 1 * ( 19#2 ) </S>",
    "<S> # 3 # 1#2#3int . </S>",
    "<S> j. mod . </S>",
    "<S> phys . a * # 1 * ( 19#2 ) </S>",
    "<S> # 3 # 1texas a & m university preprint ctp - tamu-#1 # 1hep - ph/#1 # 1hep - th/#1 # 1hep - ex/#1 # 1astro - ph/#1    6.0 in 8.5 in -0.25truein 0.30truein 0.30truein    doe / er/4071723 + hep - ph/9601208 +    * supersymmetry : *    * from the fermi scale to the planck scale + *    * jorge l. lopez + *    doe / er/4071723 + january 1996 </S>"
  ]
}