{
  "article_text": [
    "one of the most important questions to be clarified in the hydrodynamical approach to the relativistic heavy ion physics is the effect of dissipative processes .",
    "the second order theory , first proposed by muller and developed by israel and stewart , has been considered standard approach for this problem @xcite .",
    "but it is quite complex and involves many unknown parameters from the point of qcd dynamics so that its complete application to practical problems such as relativistic heavy ion reactions has not been done yet @xcite .    in this work ,",
    "we propose an alternative approach to this question @xcite .",
    "we show that the physical origin of the second order theories can easily be understood in terms of memory effects .",
    "the irreversible current modified by the memory effects becomes consistently with causality and sum rules @xcite .",
    "based on this idea , we introduced the memory effect to the relativistic dissipative hydrodynamic of landau @xcite , where we introduce only one extra parameter , the relaxation time @xmath0 in addition to the usual viscosity coefficients of the navier - stokes equation .",
    "the resulting equation becomes hyperbolic @xcite .",
    "the effect of viscosity is also important when we discuss the possible generation and propagation of shock waves in the qcd medium created in the process of relativistic heavy ion collisions .",
    "as discussed extensively in this conference@xcite , it has been suggested that a high energy jet propagating in the qgp may generate a mach cone and observables associated with such phenomena may bring important information of the genuine hydrodynamical properties of the matter @xcite .",
    "the dynamical simulation of shock wave generation is very difficult even for the non - relativistic regime .",
    "a full 3d simulation of shock wave dynamics has never been done for the heavy ion collisions . in this work",
    ", we apply our formulation to the calculation of full 3d relativistic ( causal ) shock wave problem .",
    "the implementation of our method to the existing ideal hydro - codes is straightforward , particularly to those based on the local lagrangian coordinate system such as spherio @xcite .",
    "we organize the present work as follows . in the next section ,",
    "we briefly introduce our formalism and discuss its application to the generation of shock waves . in section 3 , we present some results of 3d calculation of shock wave propagation within the causal formulation of the dissipative hydrodynamics . in section 4 , we discuss the result and perspectives .",
    "the fundamental problem of the first order theory like the navier - stokes theory comes from the fact that the diffusion equation is parabolic . the physical origin of this problem can be followed up to the fact that the irreversible current @xmath1 is assumed to be proportional to a thermodynamic force @xmath2 as @xmath3where the onsager coefficient @xmath4 is , in general , a function of thermodynamic quantities .",
    "usually @xmath2 is related to the inhomogeneity in the density .",
    "when the microscopic rearrangement time scale is not negligible compared to the time scale of the change in the irreversible current , then the above should be replaced by the equation of motion for the current , @xmath5where @xmath6 is the relaxation time .",
    "for very small @xmath7 we recover eq.([curr ] ) . thus eq.([curr ] ) can be understood as the large viscous limit of the damped motion , where the velocity ( current ) is proportional to the force ( aristotelian vision ) .",
    "it can be shown that the above modification is enough to convert the parabolic nature of a diffusion equation to hyperbolic one @xcite .",
    "for the relativistic hydrodynamics , we have to consider several different kind of thermodynamical forces related to the velocity and density inhomogeneity .",
    "they are @xmath8 and@xmath9where @xmath10 is the four - velocity of the fluid , @xmath11 with @xmath12 the chemical potential . these inhomgeneities generate the corresponding irreversible currents and the analogous equations to eq.(irrev ) for them should be @xmath13where @xmath14 and @xmath15 @xmath16 and @xmath17 are bulk viscosity , shear viscosity and thermal conductivity coefficients , respectively .",
    "the energy - momentum tensor is expressed with these currents as @xmath18 where @xmath19 and @xmath20 is the double symmetric traceless projection , @xmath21 whereas the conserved baryon number current is given by @xmath22 the hydrodynamic equations are @xmath23",
    "although eqs.([heat],[hydro ] ) together with the equation of state give the complete description of the hydrodynamical motion of the system , in practice , some additional care to be taken , especially for the simulation of the shock wave dynamics . whenever there exists a shock wave , always occurs an entropy production through the shock front . in an idealized hydrodynamical approach ,",
    "the shock front is a discontinuity in thermodynamical quantities in a hydrodynamic solution .",
    "mathematically speaking , it should be treated as the boundary condition to connect two distinct hydrodynamic solutions .",
    "physically , it is not a real discontinuity , but a quick change of the density in the region where the local equilibrium is not satisfied .",
    "thus it has a finite thickness at least a few times of the mean - free path ( typical microscopic scale of distance ) for a stationary shock . under a dynamical condition such as relativistic heavy ion collisions ,",
    "the compression shock may have much more larger thickness due to the many complicated local transient properties .    to reproduce true shock wave phenomena ,",
    "the full degrees of freedom of the hydrodynamics , together with a proper boundary condition correctly connecting to regions through the non - equilibrated domain of the shock , are required .",
    "the usual numerical approach of hydrodynamics excludes such a possibility from the beginning . since there exist no short wavelength excitation modes due to the finite discretization , the energy and momentum conservation required by the hydrodynamics result in a very rapidly oscillations of the variables near the shock region .",
    "these quick oscillations are somewhat compensating the thermal energy associated to the entropy production throughout the shock front . in order to avoid these oscillations ,",
    "von neumann and richtmeyer@xcite introduced the method of pseudo - viscosity .",
    "the idea is to put the bulk viscosity in the shock region to replace the entropy production through the shock front .",
    "the form of the pseudo - viscosity is chosen so that asymptotic values of thermodynamic quantities connects smoothly from one side to the other through the shock , satisfying the huguniot - rankine boundary condition .",
    "for the relativistic extension , we have to transform this formalism in the causal form .",
    "thus , we introduce the causal pseudo - viscosity by using the bulk viscosity coefficient @xmath24 in eq.([heat ] ) as @xmath25 $ ] for @xmath26 and @xmath27 otherwise where @xmath28 and @xmath29 and @xmath30 are constants proportional to the space resolution scale of the numerical solution . from the condition of causality ,",
    "the relaxation time associated to this pseudo - viscosity should satisfy @xmath31this means , the larger the viscosity , the larger the relaxation time .        in fig.1",
    ", we show the example of creation and propagation of shock wave induced by a small qgp drop injected into the homogeneous qgp fluid at a relativistic energy ( @xmath32 ) . here , we take a massless ideal gas equation of state , and the incident drop has half the temperature of the background in the local rest frame . the relaxation time necessary to maintain the causality in this calculation",
    "is found to be @xmath33 .",
    "this seems to be large , but the effect of shock wave requires a large viscosity so that a large relaxation time is necessary .",
    "we can see the generation of mach cone and also the turbulent structure after the shock cone .",
    "we found that the cone angle depends on the viscosity and also the related relaxation time @xmath34 for a finite @xmath6 the mach cone opens more than the usual estimate for ideal fluid case .",
    "we presented the first full 3d relativistic viscous hydrodynamic calculation which preserve the causality correctly . in the case of shock wave simulation ,",
    "it is fundamental to include the bulk viscosity to take account for the entropy generation through the shock front . to satisfy the causal propagation of the signal",
    ", the presence of viscosity requires a finite relaxation time .",
    "it is found that the mach cone angle depends on the viscosity and the relaxation time .",
    "it is also observed that a very turbulent structure after the shock .",
    "more quantitative and systematic study of the shock wave generation and its propagation in an expanding qgp is in progress .",
    "chaudhuri , nucl - th/0604014 , u. heinz , h. song and a.k .",
    "chaudhuri , phys.rev.c73:034904 ( 2006 ) , a. muronga and d.h .",
    "rischke , nucl - th/0407114 , a. muronga , phys.rev.c69:034903,2004 , phys.rev.lett.88:062302,2002 , r. baier , p. romatschke , u. a. wiedemann , hep - ph/0602249 , nucl - th/0604006 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the first 3d calculation of shock wave propagation in a homogeneous qgp has been performed within the new formulation of relativistic dissipative hydrodynamics which preserves the causality . </S>",
    "<S> we found that the relaxation time plays an important role and also affects the angle of mach cone . </S>"
  ]
}