{
  "article_text": [
    "a search for high energy astrophysical tau neutrinos will not only yield quite useful information about some of the highest energy phenomenons occurring in the present universe related to the origin of observed high energy gamma rays and ultra high energy cosmic rays but also can possibly probe physics beyond standard model of particle physics .",
    "the representative extra terrestrial sources of high energy astrophysical tau neutrinos with energy greater than @xmath1 gev include the atmosphere of earth , the plane of our galaxy , the center of distant ( active ) galaxies as well as possibly the sites of gamma ray bursts ( grbs ) . here ,",
    "i summarize the present status of intrinsic flux estimates for high energy astrophysical tau neutrinos , both originating from the source itself as well as during propagation ( of ultra high energy cosmic rays , assumed to be dominantly protons here ) . in light of recently growing empirical evidence for neutrino flavor oscillations ,",
    "i will mention the effects of neutrino flavor mixing on this intrinsic flux ( in two flavor approximation , for simplicity ) .",
    "the presently envisaged prospects for possible observations of intrinsic and oscillated high energy astrophysical tau neutrino flux through several different detection strategies will also be presented .",
    "for a recent brief review on high energy astrophysical neutrinos , see @xcite .",
    "high energy astrophysical tau neutrino production can occur in @xmath2 and @xmath3 interactions taking place in cosmos .",
    "these interactions produce unstable hadrons such as @xmath4 and @xmath5 . at further higher center of mass energy , production of other heavier states such as @xmath6 , @xmath7 as well as",
    "@xmath8 is also possible .",
    "all of these states decay into @xmath9 directly or indirectly , with @xmath4 being the lightest one to decay directly into @xmath9 .",
    "copious production of @xmath10 also occurs in these interactions , which decay into non tau neutrinos .",
    "the absolute normalization of high energy astrophysical tau neutrinos is fixed in a similar way as for high energy astrophysical muon neutrinos . in general , the @xmath4 dominates the tau neutrino production over the entire energy range under consideration here . in these interactions , the target protons and photons",
    "are considered to be present inside the source as well as in the interstellar medium between the source and the detector .",
    "the high energy tau neutrinos possibly originating from grbs are an example of the former situation , whereas the galactic plane and gzk tau neutrinos are examples for the latter situation .",
    "the gzk tau neutrinos are a result of neutrino flavor oscillations of gzk muon neutrinos , which are produced in @xmath11 interactions @xcite .",
    "the atmospheric tau neutrino flux is estimated in @xcite , whereas the galactic tau neutrino flux is estimated and compared with atmospheric one in @xcite . in these estimates ,",
    "the tau neutrino flux is obtained by solving the system of coupled cascade equations that describes the propagation of protons , unstable hadrons and leptons in the presence of a varying target density medium .",
    "depending upon the distance to the source and the concerned energy range , the production of high energy tau neutrinos may or may not become comparable to the high energy muon neutrinos .",
    "for instance , in case of galactic plane , it is the intrinsic muon neutrino flux that dominates , however , it is not the case for atmosphere of earth for the whole energy range under consideration here . in the atmosphere of earth , for @xmath12 gev , intrinsic tau neutrino production is quite comparable to intrinsic muon neutrino production as both originate from @xmath13 s .",
    "the empirical evidence for neutrino flavor mixing is now rather compelling . in particular , the explanation of recent statistically significant data concerning the atmospheric muon neutrino deficit is suggestive of @xmath14 flavor oscillations . in the context of two neutrino flavors ,",
    "the oscillation probability formula is @xmath15 here @xmath16 is neutrino flavor mixing angle between @xmath17 and @xmath9 , whereas @xmath18 . presently , the global best fit values of @xmath19 and @xmath20 are essentially @xmath21 and @xmath22 ev@xmath23 , respectively @xcite . in eq .",
    "( [ one ] ) , @xmath24 is the distance between the source and the detector . in case of complete averaging , namely when @xmath25 , the second @xmath26 factor is equal to 0.5 . taking @xmath27 , i obtain , @xmath28 .",
    "this is substantial , as compared to the intrinsic production probability of high energy astrophysical tau neutrinos , which is rather suppressed relative to that for muon neutrinos in some distant astrophysical sites as mentioned in the last section .",
    "high energy astrophysical tau neutrinos thus seem to be roughly as abundant as high energy muon neutrinos except from the atmosphere of earth , given the present status of _ neutrino flavor mixing_. for a description of three ( and four ) neutrino flavor mixing effects for high energy astrophysical tau neutrinos , see @xcite .",
    "equation 1 ignores the effect of a possible enhancement in @xmath29 due to ( coherent forward ) neutrino scattering during propagation .",
    "this approximation is presently justified , given the current status of high energy astrophysical tau neutrino observations @xcite .",
    "further discussion on propagation effects of mixed high energy ( tau ) neutrinos can be found in @xcite , whereas for unmixed high energy tau neutrinos propagation effects ( mainly related to observations ) , see @xcite .",
    "given the intrinsic neutrino fluxes , @xmath30 and @xmath31 at the production site , the total tau neutrino flux @xmath32 arriving at the detector , including the effects of neutrino flavor oscillations during the propagation , is @xmath33 where @xmath34 is given by eq .",
    "figure 1 displays the @xmath35 from some representative extra terrestrial sources .",
    "let me emphasize here a simple point that neutrino flavor mixing is an intrinsic property of the neutrino state .",
    "it has nothing to do with the energy of the neutrino .",
    "it is the probability of neutrino oscillation that depends on neutrino energy .",
    "present status of currently operating and under planning high energy ( tau ) neutrino detectors is described in @xcite .",
    "in general , the high energy astrophysical tau neutrino flux arrives at an earth based detector in three general directions .",
    "it might be possible to search for downward going high energy tau neutrinos through _",
    "double shower _",
    "technique @xcite .",
    "quantitative details of this suggestion for a typical km@xmath36 instrumented volume ( ice ) cherenkov radiation detector were given in @xcite .",
    "the event simulations done by icecube collaboration based on @xcite can be found in @xcite . in principle , this technique may also be feasibly implemented in other alternative detection methods as well .",
    "a high energy tau neutrino flux at the level of @xmath37 gives several double shower type events per year irrespective of its origin in an instrumented volume of km@xmath36 for an incident energy of several @xmath38 gev .",
    "for the energy range between @xmath39 gev to @xmath40 gev , the two showers will be quite difficult to separate from each other for typical cherenkov radiation detectors . between @xmath41 gev and @xmath38 gev ,",
    "the proposed megaton detectors are a possibility , whereas between @xmath42 gev and @xmath43 gev , detectors with instrumented volume of more than km@xmath36 may be needed . on the other hand for energy greater than @xmath44 gev ,",
    "the two showers are too distant from each other ( essentially hundreds of km ) , so are difficult to track for presently planned ( single ) earth based detectors @xcite .",
    "the possibility of observation of near horizontal high energy tau neutrinos through double shower technique for pierre auger array was briefly considered in @xcite .",
    "following @xcite , an approximately half an order of magnitude energy interval , namely @xmath45 , was obtained by requiring that the longitudinal profile of the two showers do not overlap in the array length , taken to be @xmath46 60 km ( see fig .",
    "[ fig:2 ] and fig .",
    "[ fig:3 ] for illustration ) .",
    "the two showers are considered to develop in the air . for energy above @xmath44 gev ,",
    "the decay length of the tau lepton in air is larger than the size of the array and the double shower signature can not be observed",
    ". however , the energy at which the two showers start separating in pierre auger array lies below the presently planned threshold for high energy neutrino detection .",
    "the crucial factor here being the _ difference _ in the incident tau neutrino energy dependence on the spread and separation of the two showers .",
    "the double shower type event rate for pierre auger array can be estimated following @xcite .",
    "the upward going tau neutrino flux is suppressed by the deep inelastic tau neutrino nucleon scattering inside the earth for @xmath47 gev @xcite .",
    "in fact , for upward going high energy tau neutrinos which cross almost all the diameter of the earth , the suppression in the incident flux is essentially exponential .",
    "a variant of the last two situations is a scenario in which the high energy tau neutrino nucleon charged current deep inelastic interaction occurs just once inside the earth and a tau lepton is produced .",
    "this tau lepton after exiting the earth produces an air shower which might possibly be measured in a future large earth , plane , balloon or space based detector @xcite .",
    "@xmath48 so far , there are only few explicit estimates for intrinsic high energy astrophysical tau neutrino flux .",
    "existing ones are for atmosphere of earth and for our galaxy .",
    "9 h.  athar , arxiv : hep - ph/0209130 .",
    "r.  engel , d. seckel and t.  stanev , phys .",
    "d 64 ( 2001 ) 093010 .",
    "l.  pasquali and m.  h.  reno , phys .",
    "d 59 ( 1999 ) 093003 .",
    "h.  athar , k.  cheung , g.  l.  lin and j.  j.  tseng , arxiv : hep - ph/0112222 ( to appear in astropart .",
    "see , for instance , j.  w.  valle , arxiv : hep - ph/0209047 .",
    "h.  athar , m.  jeabek and o.  yasuda , phys .",
    "d 62 ( 2000 ) 103007 .",
    "e.  waxman and j.  n.  bahcall , phys .",
    "lett .   78 ( 1997 ) 2292 . h.  athar , nucl .",
    "87 ( 2000 ) 442 ; astropart .",
    "phys .   14 ( 2000 ) 217 .",
    "c.  lunardini and a.  yu .",
    "smirnov , nucl .",
    "b 583 ( 2000 ) 260 ; phys .",
    "d 64 ( 2001 ) 073006 ; v.  a.  naumov , phys .",
    "b 529 ( 2002 ) 199 .",
    "v.  a.  naumov and l.  perrone , astropart .",
    "phys .   10",
    "( 1999 ) 239 ; s.  bottai and s.  giurgola , arxiv : astro - ph/0205325 .",
    "l. resvanis , these proceedings .",
    "j.  g.  learned and s.  pakvasa , astropart .",
    "phys .   3 ( 1995 ) 267 .",
    "h.  athar , g.  parente and e.  zas , phys .  rev .",
    "d 62 ( 2000 ) 093010 .",
    "see , http://icecube.wisc.edu/science/sci-tech-docs/nutau.pdf .",
    "d.  fargion , arxiv : astro - ph/9704205 ; s.  i.  dutta , m.  h.  reno , i.  sarcevic and d.  seckel , phys .  rev .",
    "d 63 ( 2001 ) 094020 ; j.  f.  beacom , p.  crotty and e.  w.  kolb , phys .  rev .",
    "d 66 ( 2002 ) 021302 .",
    "h.  athar , arxiv : hep - ph/0004083 .",
    "f.  halzen and d.  saltzberg , phys .",
    "lett .   81 ( 1998 ) 4305 ; s.  i.  dutta , m.  h.  reno and i.  sarcevic , arxiv : hep - ph/0207344 . g.  domokos and s.  kovesi - domokos , arxiv : hep - ph/9801362 ; arxiv : hep - ph/9805221 ; d.  fargion , astrophys .",
    "j.   570 ( 2002 ) 909 ; a.  kusenko and t.  j.  weiler , phys .",
    "lett .   88 ( 2002 ) 161101 ; j.  l.  feng , p.",
    "fisher , f.  wilczek and t.  m.  yu , phys .",
    "88 ( 2002 ) 161102 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> aspects related to production , propagation and prospects for observations of high energy astrophysical tau neutrinos originating from some representative extra terrestrial sources such as atmosphere of earth , our galactic plane as well as possibly from distant sites of gamma ray bursts in the energy range @xmath0 are reviewed . </S>"
  ]
}