{
  "article_text": [
    "the purpose of the present paper is to show that the dynamical string model offers an alternative approach to describe ultrarelativistic heavy - ion collisions at bombarding energies of a few hundreds gev / nucleon in terms of extended objects , the so - called hadronic strings .",
    "the existing event generators for high - energy hadronization processes can be classified as follows :    1 .",
    "event generators for high - precision description of elementary hadronization processes ( including only lepton and proton beams ) in vacuum : pythia @xcite , herwig @xcite , ariadne @xcite , lepto @xcite , isajet @xcite .",
    "these event generators combine the parton - shower evolution in perturbative qcd terms with non - perturbative hadronization prescription to convert final partonic distributions into hadronic ones . for the latter the lund string fragmentation model",
    "is commonly used @xcite with the exception of herwig , which uses other considerations for coalescing coloured partons to colour - neutral clusters and fragmenting those into hadrons .",
    "the common feature of this class of models is the lack of space - time evolution .",
    "therefore , these models can not be directly applied for describing hadronization at finite densities , e.g.  for that of high - energy hadronization processes involving also nuclei .",
    "event generators for the description of hadronization at finite densities , e.g.  high - energy heavy - ion collisions : fritiof @xcite , pcm @xcite , dpm @xcite , venus @xcite , qgsm @xcite , rqmd @xcite , urqmd @xcite , hsd @xcite , hijet @xcite , hijing @xcite , two - phase simulation of ultrarelativistic nuclear collisions @xcite .",
    "+ these models provide a space - time description ( except hijing ) of the hadronization process considered . in a few of them",
    "@xcite the partonic degrees of freedom are included also in the early stage of the collision in some form .",
    "hadrons are generally treated as point particles with interaction ranges prescribed on the base of the constituent valence - quark picture . as a rule , string excitation",
    "is included ( with the exception of @xcite ) in various forms and the lund string fragmentation model @xcite is used .",
    "generally , string - like excited hadronic states do not propagate and collide with other hadrons in the surrounding .",
    "strings are rather a clever tool of bookkeeping how highly excited hadrons fragment into hadrons of the discrete mass spectrum .",
    "models which intend to provide a space - time description for both the high - energy elementary hadronization processes in vacuum and the more involved hadronization processes at finite densities like those including nuclei , e.g.  vni @xcite .",
    "vni gives a full space - time picture of ultrarelativistic heavy - ion collisions , combining the space - time evolution of the parton - shower in its early stage with the later hadronic cascade .",
    "the space - time picture of the parton - cascade has also been used in the parton - hadron conversion , based on the ideas introduced in @xcite .",
    "there are no strings in this model , the hadrons are considered as point particles with finite interaction ranges , as usual .",
    "the dynamical string model presented here belongs to the third class of models providing a full space - time description .",
    "it can be applied to elementary hadronization processes in vacuum and to hadronization processes at finite densities involving nuclei as well .",
    "it is the basic feature of the dynamical string model that during the whole space - time evolution of an event all the hadrons are consistently considered as extended , string like objects satisfying the particular laws of string dynamics . on the contrary to other models on the market ,",
    "the string picture is not merely used as a fragmentation model of excited hadrons .",
    "it is taken here as the model for hadron dynamics , according to which the laws of motion , decay , and collision of hadrons are determined .",
    "on the contrary to the models including a parton - shower for the early stage of the evolution , the dynamical string model considers the string like collective excitations of the hadrons to be decisive for the evolution of the ultrarelativistic heavy - ion collision , neglecting completely the underlying partonic processes .",
    "the good qualitative description of ultrarelativistic heavy - ion collisions for cern sps energies of a few hundreds gev / n obtained in the present paper indicates that the overall qualitative features of the fragment distributions and multiplicities may not be sufficient to clarify the interplay of the string like collective degrees of freedom and that of the partonic ones .    in the dynamical string model all kinds of broken line string excitations",
    "are taken into account , whereas in other existing models string like excitations are basically longitudinal , yo - yo like as far as no gluon jets ( or minijets ) are included .",
    "the dynamical string model has a rather few number of parameters , as compared to other existing models .",
    "that is an advantage , but on the other hand one can not expect that the model in this form can provide more than an overall qualitative description of ultrarelativistic heavy - ion collisions .    in sect .",
    "2 we give a description of the dynamical string model , and in sect .",
    "3 the model is applied to the ultrarelativistic heavy - ion collision @xmath0s(200 gev / n)+@xmath0s .",
    "the underlying idea of the dynamical string model @xcite is that hadrons can be represented by classical one - dimensional objects , the oriented relativistic open bosonic strings as suggested by artru @xcite and remler @xcite .",
    "there are experimental evidences that hadrons have string like collective degrees of freedom : ( i ) the well - known , almost linear regge - trajectories @xcite corresponding to the string tension of @xmath5 gev / fm , ( ii ) the nearly exponential mass spectrum of the resolved hadron resonances @xcite ; ( iii ) the existence of a preferred ( longitudinal ) direction in elementary fragmentation processes ; ( iv ) the emission of linearly polarized gluons by the excited hadronic system occurring in high - energy pp collisions @xcite .",
    "theoretical indications and successful applications of the string model for hadronic physics are overviewed in @xcite . for our work",
    "the success of the string fragmentation models developed by artru and mennessier @xcite and by the lund group @xcite was particularly encouraging .",
    "the oriented relativistic open string is thought of the idealization of the chromoelectric flux - tube with quark and antiquark ( diquark ) ends for mesons ( baryons ) .",
    "the endpoints are assumed to have vanishing rest masses .",
    "the original idea is then modified : the infinitesimally thin strings have been replaced with more realistic thick ones , i.e.   with strings exhibiting a finite tranverse size , more precisely a radius @xmath6 .",
    "the hadronic strings introduced in this manner are treated afterwards in a fully dynamical way in our model .",
    "they propagate , collide and decay according to the particular laws deduced from the string picture and from the analogy of hadronic strings with chromoelectric flux tubes , as described below .",
    "energy and momentum conservations are strictly satisfied in any elementary decay and collision event and in the evolution of the whole hadronic system , as well .",
    "no spin is introduced and the angular momentum conservation is not considered .",
    "our starting point is the classical nambu - goto string @xcite .",
    "the classical mechanical string picture provides us with a continuous mass spectrum .",
    "all kinds of broken line string configurations can arise during the evolution of any system of hadronic strings due to inelastic string collisions .",
    "furthermore , it has also been shown that those broken line string configurations with arbitrary number of kinks are unavoidable to obtain a realistic exponential mass spectrum of hadronic strings @xcite . a finite amount of momentum ( and energy )",
    "can be carried by the kinks and by the string endpoints as well .    in order to be more realistic , below the mass thresholds of 1.5 gev for baryons and 1.0 gev for mesons strings only with discrete rest masses taken from @xcite",
    "are allowed in the model .",
    "strings in the rotating rod mode are associated to the discrete hadronic states which correspond to the leading regge - trajectories @xcite .",
    "it holds @xmath7 for their lengths @xmath8 and rest masses @xmath9 leading e.g. to @xmath100.7 fm for the nucleon , and @xmath100.1 fm for the pion .",
    "particles containing strange valence quarks are completely neglected .",
    "the string endpoints carry the appropriate baryonic charges and baryon number conservation is satisfied .",
    "spin of the hadronic strings , electric charges and flavours of the string endpoints have not been introduced . on the other hand , the degeneracies of the discrete resonance states due to their spin and isospin",
    "are taken into account .",
    "any string configuration can be encoded in the trajectory of one of the endpoints of the string , in the so - called directrix @xcite , and boosted to any requested velocity as described in @xcite in detail .",
    "the directrix determines the string configuration at a given time and also its free evolution according to the nambu - goto action . any influence of the assumed transverse size of the hadronic strings on their free motion is neglected . during the evolution of the investigated system each hadronic string",
    "is assumed to move freely between the subsequent elementary interaction events ( decays and collisions ) of its life .    in the numerical code",
    "the directrix is stored in less than 200 points , with typically 0.1 gev rest mass for every linear segment of the broken line string .",
    "whenever it is needed for describing single decay and collision events , the string can be constructed from its directrix unambigously @xcite .",
    "the string endpoints generally carry a finite amount of momentum , and are described by two string points at the same spatial position , but corresponding to different values of the string parameter @xcite .    in order to simulate any individual elementary string interaction event ,",
    "the participating strings are reconstructed numerically from their directrices . after carrying out a single decay or collision event",
    "the final state strings must be converted back in their directrices .",
    "generally , the conversion directrix @xmath11 string @xmath11 directrix leads to a doubling of the directrix points with many redundant ones that have to be removed by a reduction algorithm .",
    "if the endpoints of two neighbouring directrix segments are almost on a straight line ( i.e.  the common point of both segments is rather close to one of the endpoints , or to the straight line connecting the endpoints ) , the segments are replaced by a single linear directrix segment under the constraint that energy and momentum must be conserved .      in the dynamical string model",
    "the collision is introduced as a binary interaction of strings . in order to obtain realistic total cross sections for the string - string collisions , a finite transverse size or radius @xmath6 has to be prescribed to the hadronic strings as already established in @xcite .",
    "this radius is chosen to be identical for all hadronic strings and it is also assumed not to be lorentz contracted @xcite .",
    "strings coming in touch , and remaining after a critical collision time @xmath12 still closer than their interaction range @xmath13 , interact .",
    "the total cross section is assumed to have a purely geometrical origin .",
    "elastic and inelastic string - string collisions are distinguished , based also on geometrical concepts .",
    "an inelastic interaction range @xmath14 is defined .",
    "strings being closer than @xmath15 after the time @xmath12 elapsed since they came in touch , suffer inelastic collision , whereas the peripheral collisions are considered to be elastic ones .",
    "if the strings came in touch but after the time @xmath12 they are at a distance larger than @xmath13 , they do not interact .",
    "the differentiation between elastic and inelastic processes described above was tested by numerical simulation of proton - proton ( @xmath16 ) collisions in the energy range @xmath17 gev ( see fig .  [ sigma ] ) . for determining the total and elastic @xmath16 cross sections @xmath18 collision events were numerically simulated by shooting a projectile proton ( @xmath19 ) on a target proton ( @xmath20 ) at rest with an impact parameter @xmath21 .",
    "that is to say , the center of the target proton was positioned on the beam axis , the centers of the projectiles were unifomly distributed on a disk of radius @xmath22 fm centered on the beam axis in the transverse plane .",
    "the initial states of the protons were represented by rotating rod modes .",
    "the orientations of the projectile and the target protons were uniformly distributed in the entire solid angle .",
    "projectile protons were produced at a longitudinal distance 3 fm from the target .",
    "the simulations were performed by using the time steps @xmath23 fm / c .",
    "the numbers @xmath24 and @xmath25 of events with interaction and with elastic collision , respectively , were counted and converted to the corresponding total and elastic cross sections , @xmath26 and @xmath27 with the projectile velocity @xmath28 .",
    "-1.5 cm = 1.0    it is more involved ( and also more time consuming ) to calculate the distance of two strings than to determine the distance of two point particles .",
    "the distance @xmath29 of two colliding strings is defined as the minimal distance of the points of a projectile string @xmath30 and those of the target string @xmath31 .",
    "the distance @xmath29 is monitored for each string pair @xmath30 and @xmath31 in every time step as follows .",
    "the distance between strings @xmath30 and @xmath31 can be estimated as @xmath32 , where @xmath33 are the centers of mass and @xmath34 are the lengths of the strings @xmath30 and @xmath31 , respectively .",
    "if @xmath35 is larger than the string interaction range @xmath13 , then @xmath35 is taken for the distance of the string pair .",
    "otherwise , the real distance @xmath29 is computed .",
    "if once the real distance @xmath29 is calculated for a string pair and turned out to be larger than the interaction range , @xmath36 , it is not checked up to the time @xmath37 with @xmath38 the speed of light .",
    "after the strings came in touch , i.e.  their distance became @xmath39 at time @xmath40 , they can interact .",
    "the decisions on the interaction and on the interaction channel ( if any ) are taken after a critical time @xmath12 elapsed . there is no interaction if the distance of the strings @xmath41 , while an elastic collision or an inelastic collision takes place if @xmath42 or @xmath43 , respectively .",
    "it was concluded that the elastic and inelastic cross sections shown in fig .",
    "[ sigma ] are in qualitative agreement with experimental data for the interaction ranges @xmath44 fm and @xmath45 fm and the interaction time @xmath46 fm / c .",
    "the ratio of the simulated elastic and total cross sections , and the energy dependence of the elastic cross section are rather sensitive to the ratio @xmath47 and to @xmath12 .",
    "the simulated results are consistent with the following order of magnitude estimates valid for large values of the projectile momentum : @xmath48 mb and @xmath49 mb .",
    "these estimates do not take into account the orientations of the strings .",
    "there is a difference of the results obtained here ( @xmath50 mb for @xmath51 fm ) and in @xcite ( the same @xmath52 for @xmath53 fm ) .",
    "it is the consequence of introducing the interaction time @xmath12 .",
    "strings overlapping only at their ends for a short time may leave their interaction range during the time @xmath12 after having come in touch .    in the dynamical string model",
    "the distance of any pair of strings must be determined in every time step with the algorithm described above .",
    "a great amount of computational time can be spared in the simulation of heavy - ion collisions by determining the estimate @xmath35 and not calculating the actual distance for @xmath54 .",
    "once in the simulation of a heavy - ion collision event a string pair came in touch and the time @xmath12 is over , the channel of the collision ( inelastic , elastic , or no interaction ) is decided as described above and the appropriate final state in the actual collision channel is generated .    in the simulations presented here the elastic channel",
    "is introduced only to reduce the inelastic fraction of the total cross section , but the strings that suffered an elastic collision were let to move further as if nothing had happened .    the inelastic collisions are considered as rearrangements @xcite . the rearrangement of infinitely thin colliding strings is a simple cut followed by the reconnection of the string arms at the point of intersection .",
    "the order of the reconnection is always unique , as the strings are oriented objects . in the numerical code",
    "the rearrangement is carried out in the time step when the interaction time @xmath12 after the strings came in touch is over , and the criterium @xmath55 is fulfilled .",
    "then the points of the minimal distance define the points where the strings are disjoined and reconnected once again .",
    "the reconnection is performed by displacing the appropriate string pieces .",
    "energy and momentum are conserved automatically , and the center of energy of the string pair is conserved by displacing the string pair as a whole appropriately . owing to the interaction time @xmath12 the new strings generally can move away , so that any undesired infinite sequence of interactions is avoided .    according to the above prescription of rearrangement for string with continuous mass spectrum , it may happen that one or both of the final state strings would have rest masses below the mass thresholds .",
    "similar final states could also arise as the result of decay .",
    "their treatment shall be discussed later in detail .",
    "collision of discrete resonances or that of a discrete resonance with a string of the continuous mass spectrum are treated according to the same rules as the collisions of the strings of the continuous mass spectrum , as the resonances are represented by strings in the rotating rod mode .",
    "the decay law for relativistic strings belonging to the continuous mass spectrum is given by @xmath56 , i.e. the probability @xmath57 that the string piece having swept the invariant area @xmath58 breaks is proportional to that area , with the decay constant @xmath59 @xcite . making use of the analogy of the hadronic string with the chromoelectric flux tube ,",
    "the decay is considered as the result of the production of a quark - antiquark pair via tunneling effect in the strong chromoelectric field of the flux tube @xcite .",
    "then the decay constant @xmath60 can be expressed in terms of the quark - antiquark pair production rate @xmath61 depending on the radius of the flux tube @xcite .",
    "the created quark and antiquark acquire oppositely directed transverse momenta with an approximately gaussian distribution @xmath62 @xmath63 deduced from the analogy with flux tubes @xcite .",
    "the decay of strings with rest masses above the threshold are simulated as follows .",
    "for any string created , an invariant area @xmath64 is chosen according to the distribution @xmath65 .",
    "the increment of the invariant area swept by the string is calculated in every time step as the sum of area elements of the linear string segments . in the time step when the invariant area swept by the string exceeds the value @xmath64 ,",
    "the string is broken up without any time delay .",
    "the decay is performed in the segment for which the probability of decay has a maximum for that time step .",
    "the transverse momenta of the new string ends are chosen with the distribution @xmath66 , and with uniform distribution in the plane transverse to the decaying string piece in its rest frame . a piece of the string is removed around the breaking point that is required to satisfy energy and momentum conservation .",
    "the decay of discrete resonances is not considered like a string decay .",
    "their lifetimes and decay channels are taken from @xcite . according to the exponential decay law of point particles",
    "a time @xmath67 is chosen for every resonance created , and having that elapsed its decay is performed .",
    "the decay of discrete resonances can result in two or three daughters .",
    "for decay into two daughters the magnitudes of their momenta are well - defined , and the direction of the momenta is chosen isotropically in the rest frame of the mother resonance . for decay into three daughters",
    "it is assumed that the momenta of the daughters lie in a plane of randomly chosen orientation in the rest frame of the mother resonance , the momenta are of equal magnitude and each neighbouring pair closes the angle 120@xmath68 in the rest frame of the mother .",
    "the direction of one of the three momenta are chosen isotropically in the plane .",
    "the magnitudes of the momenta determined under these assumptions from energy conservation are in agreement with the average momenta indicated in @xcite .",
    "finally , the daughter resonances are represented by the appropriate rotating rods , displaced out of their interaction range in the directions of their momenta .",
    "both rearrangement and decay of strings belonging to the continuous mass spectrum can result in two - particle final states with one or both strings below the mass threshold .",
    "these cases are treated in the model in different ways .    1 .",
    "the case with two rest masses below the threshold is considered as a final state with two discrete resonances .",
    "the pair of resonances is chosen randomly according to the degeneracies of the resonances , under the restriction that the sum of the rest masses of the resonance pair must not exceed the invariant mass of the colliding string pair ( of the mother string ) .",
    "then the momenta of the resonances are chosen randomly with isotropic orientation in the rest frame of the pair , satisfying energy and momentum conservation .",
    "finally , the resonances are represented by rotating rods with the appropriate rest masses and momenta and displaced in the direction of their momenta out of their interaction range conserving the center of energy of the pair .",
    "2 .   the case with one rest mass @xmath69 below the threshold",
    "is considered as a final state with one discrete resonance and a string belonging to the continuous part of the mass spectrum .",
    "the resonance is chosen randomly taking the degeneracies into account , under the restriction that the sum of the rest masses of the final state particles must not exceed the invariant mass of the initial strings ( of the mother string ) .",
    "further on , one has to proceed differently for rearrangement and for decay .",
    "1 .   for rearrangement",
    ": one has to distinguish the cases with a mesonic or baryonic string occurring below the corresponding mass threshold . 1 .",
    "meson below the mass threshold .",
    "if the rest mass @xmath69 below the mesonic threshold @xmath70 turned out to be smaller than the pion mass , @xmath71 , the colliding strings are considered to fuse in a single one . if @xmath72 , the resonance with rest mass @xmath73 but closest to @xmath69 is chosen with the same momentum @xmath74 what the string with rest mass @xmath69 would have had .",
    "the other string is slightly modified by chopping off its wedge at the point of reconnection and inserting a linear segment of vanishing momentum with rest mass @xmath75 .",
    "baryon below the mass threshold .",
    "then the possibility of the fusion of both colliding strings is excluded in order to avoid exotic many quark states .",
    "therefore , even if @xmath69 is smaller than the nucleon mass , @xmath76 , the proton is chosen for the discrete state .",
    "the construction of the final state is performed similarly to that for a discrete meson and a string . the mass difference @xmath77 ,",
    "however , is now taken away from the other string by chopping off its wedge and displacing its arms to bring them in connection at their new endpoints .",
    "otherwise , for @xmath78 ( with the baryonic threshold @xmath79 ) the final state is constructed in the same way as for a discrete meson state and a string .",
    "2 .   for decay : the smallest possible piece at the end of the continuous string is chopped off that is required to satisfy energy and momentum conservation for the final state , when the resonance and the new string endpoint acquire the transverse momenta @xmath80 and @xmath81 , resp .",
    "the transverse momenta are chosen randomly according to the distribution @xmath66 , and oriented isotropically in the plane perpendicular to the string at its endpoint .",
    "+ finally , the discrete resonance is represented by the corresponding rotating rod and positioned so that the centers of energy of the initial and final states must be identical .",
    "there are relatively few parameters in our model .",
    "the dynamical string model has two basic parameters : the string tension @xmath5 gev / fm fitted to the slopes of the leading regge - trajectories , and the string radius @xmath82 fm , fitted to the total proton - proton cross section .",
    "the ambiguity in the analogy of strings with chromoelectric flux tubes results in a factor of @xmath83 uncertainty in the relation between the string tension @xmath84 and the product of the colour charge @xmath85 of the quark and the field strength @xmath86 , @xmath87 with @xmath88 @xcite .",
    "two more parameters are the ratio of the inelastic range @xmath89 to the full radius @xmath6 of the string : @xmath90 and the collision time @xmath91 fm / c fitted to the total and elastic proton - proton cross sections .",
    "furthermore , the masses , degeneracies and lifetimes taken from @xcite have been used for the discrete resonances below the mass thresholds , and the mesonic and baryonic mass thresholds @xmath92 gev and @xmath93 gev have been chosen .    according to the analogy of the hadronic strings with the chromoelectric flux tubes ,",
    "the decay constant @xmath94 of the string is determined by the parameters @xmath84 , @xmath6 , and @xmath95 @xcite . in table",
    "[ parsets ] we list the parameter sets used for the simulation of heavy - ion collision events , including also the corresponding total proton - proton cross sections at high energies and the decay constants and mean lifetimes @xmath96 of the strings .",
    "the mean lifetimes are determined for the so - called yo - yo mode @xcite according to the exponential decay law , @xmath97 .    .",
    "[ parsets ] parameter sets used for the simulations of heavy - ion collision events . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     the average multiplicities of the produced hadrons with negative charge ( supposed to be @xmath98 in the experiment ) are compared to the simulated results in table [ multiab ] . as the dynamical string model does not account for electric charges , one third of the produced mesons is assumed to be negative based on isospin arguments .",
    "the simulated average multiplicity of negatively charged particles is overestimated by about 30% as compared to the multiplicity in the reaction @xmath99 .",
    "this can also be seen from the data for the averaged negative charged particle multiplicity per participating baryons which varies slightly for different mass numbers @xcite .",
    "the overestimate can be the consequence of overestimating the multiplicities in individual string - string collisions , as test simulations for proton - proton collisions have shown .",
    "also the complete neglection of the strangeness channel and the rather crude treatment of elastic string - string collisions can affect the average charged particle multiplicity .",
    "the rapidity and the transverse momentum distributions of negatively charged hadrons are shown in fig .",
    "[ rapab ] and fig .  [ trab ] , respectively .",
    "it can be seen that the experimental spectra are reproduced by the model for both parameter sets qualitatively .",
    "= 0.9 = 0.9    = 0.9 = 0.9",
    "the dynamical string model has been generalised in order to simulate ultrarelativistic heavy - ion collisions at current collider energies .",
    "the initialisation of the incoming nuclei and the discrimination of the elastic and inelastic scattering of strings are now included .",
    "an effective optimisation of the collision algorithm has been performed in the numerical code . in this way , the model is able to simulate nucleus - nucleus collisions at beam energies of a few hundreds of gev / nucleon for nuclei with mass numbers up to around @xmath100 .",
    "the simulated results for the reaction @xmath0s@xmath1s at a beam energy of @xmath101 gev / n are in good qualitative agreement with the experimental data .",
    "therefore , the dynamical string model has a predictive power for ultrarelativistic heavy - ion collisions .",
    "this work was supported by the debrecen research group in physics of the hungarian academy of sciences , by otka project t-023844 , by dfg project 436/ung/113/123/0 , by gsi and bmbf .",
    "the authors are grateful to w.greiner for his kind hospitality at the institute for theoretical physics , johann wolfgang goethe university .",
    "k. sailer thanks for the support of the alexander von humboldt foundation .",
    "b. ivnyi wishes to express his thanks to the daad for their support .",
    "t. sjstrand , comp .",
    "phys . com .",
    "82 ( 1994 ) 74 .",
    "g. marchesini , b.r .",
    "webber , g. abbiendi , i.g .",
    "knowles , m.h .",
    "seymor and l. stanco , comp .",
    "phys . com .",
    "67 ( 1992 ) 465 .",
    "l. lnnblad , comp .",
    "phys . com . 7",
    "( 1992 ) 15 .",
    "g. ingelman , a. edin , and j. rathsman , prep .",
    "desy-96 - 057 ( 1996 ) , hep - ph/9605286 f. paige and s. protopopescu , in _ supercollider physics _ , ed . by d. soper ( world sci , 1986 ) ;",
    "h. baer , f/ paige , s. protopopescu , and x. tata , in _ proc . of the workshop on physics at current accelerators and supercolliders _ , ed . by j. hewett , a. white , and d. zeppenfeld ( argonne national lab . , 1993 )",
    "b. andersson , g. gustafson , g. ingelmann , t. sjstrand ; phys .",
    "97 ( 1983 ) 33 ; b. andersson , g. gustafson , and b. sderberg , nucl .",
    "b264 ( 1986 ) 29 . b. andersson , g. gustafson , and b. nilsson - almquist , nucl .",
    "b281 ( 1987 ) 289 ; b. nilsson - almquist and e. stenlund , comp .",
    "phys . com .",
    "43 ( 987 ) 387 ; b. lrstad , int . j. mod .",
    "phys . a2 ( 1989 )",
    "2861 . k. geiger and b. mller , nucl .",
    "b369 ( 1992 ) 600 ; k. geiger , phys .",
    "258 ( 1995 ) 237 .",
    "a. capella , u. sikhatme , c .- i .",
    "tan , and j. tran tranh van , phys .",
    "236 ( 1994 ) 225 .",
    "k. werner , z. phys .",
    "c42 ( 1989 ) 85 ; phys .",
    "232 ( 1993 ) 87 .",
    "bravina , n.s .",
    "amelin , l.p .",
    "csernai , p. lvai , and d. strottman , nucl .",
    "a566 ( 1994 ) 461c .",
    "h. sorge , h. stcker , and w. greiner , nucl .",
    "phys . a498 ( 1989 ) 567c ; ann .",
    "phys . 192 ( 1989 ) 266 .",
    "bass , m. belkacem , m. bleicher , m. brandstetter , l. bravina , c. ernst , l. gerland , m. hofmann , s. hofmann , j. konopka , g. mao , l. neise , s. soff , c. spieles , h. weber , l.a .",
    "winkelmann , h. stcker , w. greiner , ch .",
    "hartnack , j. aichelin , and n. amelin , prog .",
    "41 ( 1998 ) 225 , nucl - th/9803035 .",
    "w. ehehalt and w. cassing , nucl .",
    "a602 ( 1996 ) 449 , hep - ph/9507274 .",
    "a. shor and r. longacre , phys .",
    "lett . b218 ( 1989 ) 100 .",
    "x.n . wang and m. gyulassy , phys .",
    "d44 ( 1991 ) 3501 ; comp .",
    "phys . com .",
    "83 ( 1994 ) 307 .",
    "kahana and s.h .",
    "kahana , phys .",
    "c58 ( 1998 ) 3574 .",
    "k. geiger , r. longacre , and d.k .",
    "srivastava , comp .",
    "phys . com .",
    "104 ( 1997 ) 70 .",
    "k. sailer , b. mller and w. greiner ; _ quark - gluon plasma _",
    ", r. c. hwa , ed .",
    ", world scientific , singapore ( 1990 ) p. 299 .",
    "x. artru ; phys . rep .",
    "97 ( 1983 ) 147 .",
    "e. a. remler ; proc . of int .",
    "workshop on gross properties of nuclei and nuclear excitations ( hirschegg , austria ) xv ( 1987 ) 24 . ;",
    "xvii ( 1989 ) 184 .",
    "collins ; phys . rep . 1 ( 1971 ) 105 .",
    "r. hagedorn ; suppl .",
    "nuovo cim . 3 ( 1965 ) 147",
    ". t. jacobsen and h.a .",
    "olsen ; phys .",
    "42 ( 1990 ) 513 . k. sailer , th .",
    "schnfeld , z. schram , a. schfer , and w. greiner ; j. phys .",
    "g : nucl . part .",
    "17 ( 1991 ) 1005 .",
    "x. artru and g. mennessier ; nucl .",
    "b70 ( 1974 ) 93 . y. nambu ; _ lect . at copenhagen summer symp . _",
    "( 1970 ) ; o. hara ; prog . theor . phys .",
    "46 ( 1971 ) 1549 ; t. goto ; prog .",
    "46 ( 1971 ) 1560 .",
    "b. f. hatfield ; _ quantum field theory of point particles and strings _ , addison ",
    "wesley , reading , massachusetts ( 1992 ) .",
    "k. sailer , b. mller , and w. greiner ; int .",
    "phys . a4 ( 1989 ) 437 .",
    "particle data group ; phys .",
    "d 45 ( 1992 ) ii.6 .",
    "bjorken ; in _ current - induced reactions _ , ed .",
    "krner , g. kramer , d. schildknecht ( springer , new york , 1976 ) , p. 93 .",
    "a. casher , h. neuberger , and s. nussinov ; phys .",
    "d20 ( 1979 ) 179 ; e. gurvich , phys .",
    "lett . b87 ( 1979 ) 386 ; n.k .",
    "glendenning and t. matsui ; phys .",
    "d28 ( 1983 ) 2890 .",
    "pavel and d.m .",
    "brink ; z. phys .",
    "c51 ( 1991 ) 119 .",
    "schnfeld , a. schfer , b. mller , k. sailer , j. reinhardt and w. greiner ; phys .",
    "b 247 ( 1990 ) 5 .",
    "schnfeld , a. schfer , b. mller , k. sailer , j. reinhardt and w. greiner ; phys .",
    "b240 ( 1990 ) 381 .",
    "b. ivnyi , zs .",
    "schram , k sailer and w. greiner ; acta phys . hung . :",
    "heavy ion phys . 3 ( 1996 ) 5 ; hep - ph/9510380",
    ". b. ivnyi , zs .",
    "schram , k. sailer and w. greiner ; _ in : _ hot and dense nuclear matter , proc .",
    "nasi , bodrum ( 1993 ) , ed . by w. greiner ( plenum press ) , new york , p. 751 .",
    "b. ivnyi , zs .",
    "schram , k sailer and w. greiner ; proceedings of hadrons 94 workshop uzsgorod , ukraine , ( 1994 ) p. 240 . h. aihara et al . ;",
    "d31 ( 1985 ) 996 .",
    "w. busza , t. dreyer , and m. erdmann ; z. phys .",
    "c48 ( 1990 ) 167 .",
    "j. w. harris et al . ;",
    "a498 ( 1989 ) 133c .",
    "d. rhrich et al . ; nucl .",
    "a566 ( 1994 ) 35c ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this paper the dynamical string model is applied to the numerical simulation of the ultrarelativistic heavy - ion collision @xmath0s(200 gev / n)@xmath1s . </S>",
    "<S> the results are in qualitative agreement with experimental data .    8 mm     + @xmath2b . </S>",
    "<S> ivnyi , @xmath3z . </S>",
    "<S> schram , @xmath3k . </S>",
    "<S> sailer and @xmath4 g . </S>",
    "<S> soff + @xmath3department for theoretical physics , + kossuth lajos university , + h-4010 debrecen , pf . 5 , </S>",
    "<S> hungary + @xmath4institute for theoretical physics , + technical university , + d-01062 dresden , germany + </S>"
  ]
}