{
  "article_text": [
    "the cleo iii experiment@xcite is located at the cornell electron storage ring ( cesr ) , a symmetric _  collider operating in the @xmath1 energy range ( @xmath2 10.5 gev ) .",
    "it provides access to a rich variety of @xmath3-meson , tau and charm physics topics .",
    "cleo iii is the third major upgrade of the cleo experiment in the past twenty years .",
    "this upgrade had several goals including improving the particle identification capabilities to insure @xmath4 separation over the entire range of momenta expected from @xmath3-meson decay , replacement of the charged particle tracking system as most of its elements were more than a decade old , and a new data acquisition system to accommodate the expected increase in cesr luminosity and new detector systems .",
    "several important elements of the cleo ii detector were kept for use in cleo iii .",
    "these elements included the csi calorimeter , 1.5 t superconducting magnet , and the muon detector system .",
    "_    in order to create sufficient space inside the magnet volume for a ring image cherenkov ( rich ) detector the radius of the charged particle tracking system was reduced from cleo ii s 1 meter to 0.8 meter .",
    "one of the challenges of the cleo iii tracking system was to provide the same momentum resolution as cleo ii s but use a smaller region of space . to meet this challenge",
    "a new silicon detector and wire drift chamber were designed and fabricated . in this paper",
    "we first describe the cleo iii silicon detector and then provide details on the power supply system used to operate it .",
    "the cleo iii silicon detector has been been described in detail in previous publications @xcite . here",
    "we briefly review its design .",
    "the cleo iii silicon detector consists of 4 layers of double - sided silicon microstrip sensors that form barrels around the beampipe .",
    "a total of 447 identical sensors are daisy - chained into 61 ladders that are read out on both ends .",
    "each of the 122 readout chains consists of sensors , a pair of flex cables , a hybrid board that hosts resistor / capacitor ( rc ) , frontend amplifier ( fe ) and backend digitizer ( be ) chips ( fig .",
    "[ chain ] ) , a portcard , and subsequent vme readout and control boards .",
    "the sensors are dc coupled ; bias resistors and ac coupling capacitors are located on separate chips ( rc ) .",
    "each sensor contains 511 @xmath5 strips and 511 @xmath6 strips .",
    "thus there are 125@xmath7 readout channels in the cleo iii silicon detector .",
    "three voltages , nstrip , pstrip , and pstop , are necessary to bias the sensors .",
    "the nstrip and pstrip voltages deplete the sensor bulk .",
    "the pstop voltage biases `` atolls '' around the strips on the n - side and thus reduces the capacitance and supports the depletion process .",
    "the sensors are oriented such that the p - strips measure the @xmath6 coordinate ( parallel to the beam axis ) while the n - strips measure the @xmath5 coordinate .    to minimize tracking uncertainties due to multiple scattering the mass of the detector",
    "was made as low as possible ( radiation length @xmath8 1.6% ) . to achieve this end , the detector readout electronics are not in the tracking volume but at the ends of the ladders .",
    "thus most of the radiation length is due to the silicon sensors . in order to achieve good tracking efficiency",
    "a signal to noise ratio of @xmath9 in all layers is desired .",
    "however , due to the considerable length of the sensor ladders , up to five sensors are ganged together , low noise front - end electronics and low detector capacitance are required to achieve this signal - to - noise goal .",
    "the frontend electronics chips are located on hybrid boards that are mounted outside the active tracking volume on the mechanical support cones .",
    "two flexible ( `` flex '' ) cables are used to connect n and p - side readout strips of the sensor to the hybrid .",
    "the flex design uses two metal layers patterned with traces on both sides of a 25  @xmath10 kapton substrate  @xcite .",
    "beo was chosen to be the hybrid substrate due to its excellent thermal and mechanical properties .",
    "each hybrid has four rc , fe , and be chips on the top and bottom surfaces as well as bypass capacitors , resistors for the chip voltages , a temperature monitor circuit , and two connectors for power and data lines .",
    "each rc chip hosts 128 bias resistors and ac coupling capacitors on a 500  thick quartz substrate . due to the common ground for n and p - side electronics",
    "the voltage across the coupling capacitor is about half the depletion voltage .",
    "this is well below the measured rc breakdown voltage which is in the range of 75 - 100 v. the fe chip consists of a preamplifier , a cr - rc shaper , and a variable gain stage .",
    "a 5v supply ( avdd ) and a 2.5v supply ( avdd2 ) are used to operate the fe chip .",
    "amplified signals from the fe chips are transferred to the be chips for digitization .",
    "the be chip is a modified version of the lbnl svx2b design@xcite .",
    "each be chip hosts 128 8-bit wilkinson adc s , comparators and a first - in - first - out ( fifo ) buffer .",
    "the comparators allow for sparsified readout .",
    "the be chip is powered by a 5v supply ( dvdd ) .",
    "most of the power consumed by the silicon detector , up to 4 watts per hybrid , is generated by the electronics on the hybrids .",
    "the heat generated on the hybrid is transferred to the support cones through a copper post on the hybrid .",
    "signals and supply voltages are routed to the hybrid through intermediate boards called portcards .",
    "the portcards are located in eight crescent - shaped crates that form full rings around the beampipe .",
    "these cards are located about 1 meter away from the interaction region .",
    "each crescent crate contains up to 16 portcards and one buffer card that serves as a signal repeater for cleo iii slow control signals .",
    "the portcards host the adc s and dac s used by the slow control system .",
    "these cards are powered by a 5v supply ( v5pc ) and a 6v supply ( v6pc ) .",
    "the 6v supply is used to generate low current voltages that supplement the fe and be chips supply voltages .",
    "the readout chains terminate in vme based data boards equipped with a be chip readout sequencer , data fifos and a digital signal processor for formatting the data . each data board services four readout chains .",
    "the slow control process resides in a mvme 2432 cpu @xcite inside the master slow control crate .",
    "this crate also contains the interface boards necessary to control the portcards .",
    "two vme repeater boards located in the same crate communicate with corresponding repeater boards in the two power supply crates .",
    "this setup with only one slow control process residing in one crate cpu makes powering the silicon detector almost independent of computer network problems and simplifies the slow control program structure .",
    ".[tab_voltagetypes]voltages necessary to operate the silicon detector and power supply cards .",
    "the currents in this table are typical half - ladder values . [",
    "cols=\"^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]",
    "the design and status of the power supply system of the cleo iii silicon detector has been presented in detail here .",
    "the silicon detector has been taking physics quality data since july 2000 .",
    "the power supply system has been stable in daily operations .",
    "the noise performance of the silicon detector and its power supply system has been very good with 400 - 800 _  enc common - mode subtracted noise .",
    "the frontend electronics has reached its signal - to - noise goals of better than 15:1 in all layers . _",
    "we would like to thank vijay sehgal for the excellent electronics shop support , bob wells for his help with the mechanical aspects of this project , and the ohio state university s physics department machine shop .",
    "this work was supported by the alexander - von - humboldt stiftung , the ohio state university , and the u. s. department of energy .",
    "9 cleo iii proposal clns94/1277 ( unpublished )",
    ". g. viehhauser , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth .",
    "a446 ( 2000 ) 97 .",
    "t. peddlar , to be published in the proceedings of dpf2000 .",
    "e. von toerne et al .",
    ", vertex2000 conference proceedings , to be published in nucl .",
    "instr . and meth",
    ". j. fast et al . , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth .",
    "a435 ( 1999 ) 9 .",
    "i. shipsey et al . , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth . a386 ( 1997 ) 37 .",
    "h. kagan et al .",
    "a383 ( 1996 ) 189 .",
    "p. skubic et al . , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth .",
    "a418 ( 1998 ) 40 .",
    "o. milgrome et al . , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth .",
    "a383 ( 1996 ) 13 .",
    "mvme 2400 , motorola computer group , tempe , az 85282 .",
    "acopian technical company , easton , pa 18044 .",
    "vicor corporation , andover , ma 01810 - 5413 .",
    "the cable used is beldon s yp4465008 .",
    "this is a 50 conductor , 30awg flat cable with 25 mil pitch .",
    "beldon wire and cable company .",
    "p. o. box 1980 , richmond , in 47375 .",
    "xilinx , inc . , san jose , ca 95124 - 3400 .",
    "altera hardware description language , altera corporation , san jose , ca 95134 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the cleo iii detector has recently commenced data taking at the cornell electron storage ring ( cesr ) </S>",
    "<S> . one important component of this detector is a 4 layer double - sided silicon tracker with 93% solid angle coverage . </S>",
    "<S> this detector ranges in size and number of readout channels between the lep and lhc silicon detectors . in order to reach the detector performance goals of signal - to - noise ratios greater than 15:1 low noise front - end electronics together with highly regulated low noise power supplies </S>",
    "<S> were used . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we describe the low - noise power supply system and associated monitoring and safety features used by the cleo iii silicon tracker .    _ </S>",
    "<S> pacs :  29.40.wk ;  84.30.jc_    _ keywords _ :  cleo ; silicon ; microstrip ; power    _ e@xmath0 _    , </S>"
  ]
}