{
  "article_text": [
    "past solar neutrino experiments@xcite have established the solar neutrino problem .",
    "the data collected by these experiments suggest an energy dependent suppression of the solar neutrino flux measured on earth .",
    "some physical interpretations of the data make specific predictions for spectral distortions of the measured solar neutrino spectrum@xcite .",
    "thus a new generation of solar neutrino experiments set out to perform high precision measurements of the solar neutrino spectrum .",
    "on april 1 , 1996 , super - kamiokande ( sk ) was the first of these experiments to start taking data@xcite .",
    "sk uses the elastic scattering of electrons in water to observe the high energy @xmath0b neutrinos from the sun . as a water cherenkov counter it provides real time directional and energy information on the recoil electron from the neutrino interaction .",
    "since the energy of solar neutrinos is less than @xmath1 and angular resolution is limited by multiple coulomb scattering , a kinematic reconstruction of the incident neutrino s energy is precluded . the recoil electron energy measured in the detector only gives a lower limit for the energy of the incident neutrino , so the features of the incident solar neutrino spectrum have to be inferred from the resulting recoil electron spectrum measured in the detector .",
    "this increases the sensitivity of spectral analysis and @xmath0b solar neutrino flux estimation to the calibration of energy scale and resolution in the detector . a linear accelerator ( linac )",
    "was installed at sk to provide precise detector calibration with single electrons of known energy and direction at various positions in the detector volume .",
    "sk is a water cherenkov detector located in the kamioka mine in japan .",
    "it is divided into an inner and an outer detector ( i d and od ) , which are concentric cylindrical water volumes separated by an optical barrier .",
    "all photomultiplier tubes ( pmts ) collecting cherenkov light are mounted on this optical barrier , with 20  inch i d pmts looking inward and 8  inch od pmts looking outward . the od has a uniform thickness of 2.5  m surrounding the i d , and in the solar neutrino analysis it is used as a veto counter .",
    "it also passively shields the i d from gamma activity from the surrounding rock .",
    "cherenkov light emitted by electrons recoiling from neutrino scattering in the i d is collected by 11,146 i d pmts . these pmts are uniformly distributed on a 0.707  m square grid , enclosing 32,000  metric  tons of water in a volume of 36.2  m height and 33.8  m diameter .",
    "the fiducial volume for solar neutrino analysis starts 2  m inside the physical confines of the i d , and contains 22,500  metric  tons of water .",
    "the timing range of the time - to - digital converters used with the i d pmts is 1.2  @xmath2s , while the time needed for light to travel the diagonal of the i d is about 230  ns .    solar neutrinos measured in sk",
    "have energies from 5 to 18  mev .",
    "their recoil electrons have ranges of a few centimeters , allowing use of a point fitter for vertex reconstruction . knowing the vertex position",
    ", the characteristic directionality of cherenkov radiation allows reconstruction of the recoil electron direction from the distribution of light around this vertex .",
    "the total amount of light emitted in an event is used in the energy determination . with a yield of about 6",
    "hit pmts per mev of electron energy , even for the highest energy solar neutrino events less than 1% of all pmts have signals .",
    "the number of hit pmts is related to the electron energy .",
    "this number must be corrected for absorption and scattering as well as for geometrical acceptance , depending on event location and direction in the detector .",
    "sk s predecessor , kamiokande , used gamma - rays from the ni(n,@xmath3)ni reaction for the calibration of its absolute energy scale@xcite . uncertainties in branching ratios and the neutron absorption cross sections for different nickel isotopes limit the accuracy of such an energy calibration to 12% . nickel calibration also provides no information on the angular resolution of the detector and only limited information on energy resolution . the angular resolution as a function of energy",
    "is used to fit the distribution of event directions with respect to the direction to the sun .",
    "this fit is fundamental to the solar neutrino analysis in sk .",
    "the linac offers the means to study the detector response to electrons , its position dependence and angular resolution _ in situ_. it allows the injection of single electrons of well - controlled energy at various positions in the i d .",
    "the linac covers the energy range of solar neutrino events and provides an excellent calibration of the absolute energy scale .",
    "the following sections will describe the linac and its beam transport system , its calibration , and the results obtained from the first scan of the i d with this new and powerful calibration tool .",
    "the linac employed at sk is a mitsubishi ml-15miii produced for medical purposes in 1978 .",
    "it was used at the hospital of miyazaki medical university until its installation at the sk detector in 1996 .",
    "certain modifications were necessary to adapt the linac to its new purpose .",
    "it is now mounted on a solid support structure in a tunnel to the side and slightly above the top of the steel tank containing the water cherenkov detector ( fig .",
    "[ f : gbl ] ) . for sk calibration ,",
    "single electrons are needed in the detector .",
    "a special electron gun reduces the number of electrons entering the acceleration tube to appropriate levels .",
    "its output current is adjustable , allowing control of the beam intensity .",
    "microwave pulses of @xmath4s width are generated in a mitsubishi pv2012 m klystron with an adjustable pulse rate between 10 and 66  hz .",
    "electrons from the electron gun are accelerated as they travel with the microwave in the accelerating tube . manipulating the input power and frequency of the microwave changes the average beam momentum .",
    "the electron energy can be varied in a range from 5 to 16  mev , well matched to recoil electron energies from solar neutrinos .",
    "features of the linac are summarized in tab .",
    "[ t : linac ] .",
    ".technical data on the electron linac .",
    "[ cols= \" < , < \" , ]",
    "the super - kamiokande detector is calibrated with an electron linac for the energy range from 5 mev to 16 mev . by this",
    "means the absolute energy scale for the solar neutrino analysis is known with an accuracy better than 1% .",
    "mc simulation reproduces the energy resolution of the super - kamiokande detector to within 2% and its angular resolution to better than 1.5  degrees for 10  mev electrons .",
    "mc vertex resolution is well tuned to match the linac data .",
    "various improvements of the current setup are in development and will soon be implemented .",
    "a permanent magnet for installation at the end of the beam pipe is currently being designed , which will allow bending of the linac electrons out of the -z direction .",
    "we gratefully acknowledge the cooperation of the kamioka mining and smelting company .",
    "this work was partly supported by the japanese ministry of education , science and culture and the u.s .",
    "department of energy .",
    "9 k. lande , in : k. enqvist et al .",
    ", eds . , _",
    "proceedings 17th international conference on neutrino physics and astrophysics _ ( world scientific , singapore , 1996 ) 25 .",
    "y. fukuda et al . , _ phys .",
    "* 77 * ( 1996 ) 1683 .",
    "j. n. abdurashitov et al . , _ phys .",
    "_ * b328 * ( 1994 ) 234 ; + s.r.elliott et al .",
    ", in : j. tran thanh van , ed .",
    ", _ proceedings xxxth recontres de moriond , electroweak interactions and unified theories , les arcs , savoie , france , 1995 _",
    "( editions frontieres , singapore , 1995 ) , 439 .",
    "w. hampel et al . , _ phys .",
    "lett . _ * b388 * ( 1996 ) 384 . n. hata and p. langacker , _ hep - ph/9705339_. super - kamiokande collaboration , _ hep - ex/9805021 _ + ( accepted for publication in physical review letters ) .",
    "k. s. hirata et al . , _ phys .",
    "* d44 * ( 1991 ) 2241 .",
    "geant detector description and simulation tool , + cern program library w5013 ( 1994 ) .",
    "a. suzuki et al .",
    ", _ nuclear instruments and methods _ * a329 * ( 1993 ) 299 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in order to calibrate the super - kamiokande experiment for solar neutrino measurements , a linear accelerator ( linac ) for electrons was installed at the detector . </S>",
    "<S> linac data were taken at various positions in the detector volume , tracking the detector response in the variables relevant to solar neutrino analysis . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , the absolute energy scale is now known with less than 1% uncertainty .    </S>",
    "<S> ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    ,    solar neutrinos , linear accelerator , calibration , super - kamiokande + pacs : 26.65.+t </S>"
  ]
}