{
  "article_text": [
    "the nature of transverse momentum@xcite spectra is quite interesting for the following reasons : firstly , in the form of invariant cross section in terms of @xmath0 , it offers a ready , reliable and very basic observable for both measurements , and for theorization to be attempted .",
    "secondly , the @xmath0-spectra throw light on the particle production mechanism on the whole ; they have also impact and indirect reflections on the predicted features of what is normally projected as the signatures of the conjectured quark - gluon plasma(qgp ) .",
    "thirdly and finally , the expressions for invariant @xmath0-spectra lead us to define some other physically significant observables in the domain of particle physics , like the average multiplicity , average transverse momentum etc .",
    "after pions , kaons of all varieties ( with @xmath4 and @xmath5 ) constitute the second most abundant species among the particle secondaries which are produced in multiparticle processes of hadron - hadron , hadron - nucleus or nucleus - nucleus interactions at high and very high energies .",
    "secondly , kaons are the lightest ` strange ' particles for which they have a special status . besides",
    ", kaons are supposed to bear , as told above , some strong reflections on what are viewed as the qgp diagnostics .",
    "lastly , the kaon - pion ratios and their energy - dependences play a very significant role in both the particle physics and non - accelerator physics sectors .",
    "so , analyzing the kaon production characteristics , especially the @xmath0-spectra , in the light of any model assumes a high degree of importance and comes as a challenging task as well .",
    "furthermore , the production of proton - antiprotons , the first family - set of baryonic category , is also important from various physical considerations .",
    "the nature of the ratios @xmath6 has a strong bearing on astroparticle physics . besides , the generalized antiparticle to particle ratios are of importance in the study of matter - antimatter symmetry in the universe , since they provide the relative abundance of antiparticle productions@xcite .",
    "very recently , spurts of data on the various aspects of particle production from the cern - sps and the rhic - bnl , studying high energy interaction properties in the collisions between @xmath7 and @xmath8 respectively , are available . and providing interpretations for both the previous measurements and these oncoming blizzards of new data is really a very significant work .",
    "our objective here is to try to describe and/or explain the nature of the transverse momentum ( @xmath0)-spectra of kaons , protons and antiprotons in a large variety of proton - induced and nucleus - induced high energy interactions with the help of a combinational approach(ca ) , called also the grand combination of models ( gcm ) .",
    "the present work is prompted by our previous successes in analyzing the @xmath0-spectra and rapidity - spectra@xcite of pions alone in a host of nuclear collisions at high and superhigh energies .",
    "in fact , taking up the task of interpreting the @xmath0-spectra of a set of non - pion secondaries produced in nuclear collisions becomes the logical imperative and the natural follow - up in maintaining a sequence of our studies and with the model of our choice in a self - complete way . in real terms , while proceeding with the present work , we would follow the trajectory of the ref.@xcite here more closely than the other one , as in the former the approach to the studies on @xmath0-spectra has been rationalized in a better way and much more consistent manner .",
    "we have consciously and carefully avoided here to adopt operationally any of the known popular / standard models and have also tried to escape , as far as possible , the buzzwords related to them .",
    "and we have singularly been guided by the results of experimental measurements on the nature of @xmath0-spectra alone in a very dispassionate and objective manner .",
    "this paper is organized here as follows . in the next section ( section ii )",
    "we give the outline of the combinational approach which is to be taken up for this study and the sketch of the physical perspective which prompted us to proceed in the stated direction . in section",
    "iii we present the essential steps of the methodology of our work , the results of model - based calculations and some brief discussion on the results obtained by this combinational approach .",
    "the last section is reserved for summing up the conclusions and pointing out the shortcomings of the approach adopted here .",
    "following the suggestion of faessler@xcite and the work of peitzmann@xcite and also of schmidt and schukraft@xcite , we propose here a generalized empirical relationship between the inclusive cross - section for production of @xmath4 , @xmath9 and @xmath10 in nucleon(n)-nucleon(n ) collision and that for nucleus(a)-nucleus(a ) collision as given below :",
    "@xmath11    where q stands for @xmath4 , @xmath9 , @xmath10 and @xmath12 could be expressed in the factorization form , @xmath13 .",
    "while investigating a specific nature of dependence of the two variables(@xmath14 and @xmath0 ) , either of them is assumed to remain averaged or with definite values .",
    "speaking in clearer terms , if and when @xmath15-dependence is studied by experimental group , the rapidity factor is integrated over certain limits and is absorbed in the normalization factor.so , the formula turns into    @xmath16    the main bulk of work , thus , converges to the making of an appropriate choice of form for @xmath17 .",
    "and the necessary choices are to be made on the basis of certain premises and physical considerations which do not violate the canons of high energy particle interactions .",
    "let us now tentatively propose that the expressions for inclusive cross - section of non - pion secondaries in proton - proton scattering at high energies in eqn.(2 ) could also be chosen in the same form as that was suggested for pions by hagedorn@xcite : @xmath18    where @xmath19 is the normalization constant , and @xmath20 , @xmath21 are interaction - dependent chosen phenomenological parameters for which the values are to be obtained by the method of fitting .",
    "their @xmath22-dependences are here proposed to be given by the following formulations :    @xmath23    and @xmath24    where @xmath25 , @xmath26 , @xmath27 and @xmath28 are four constants .",
    "the @xmath22-dependence of @xmath29 and @xmath21 would be shown later diagrammatically in the text and their data - base would also be indicated .",
    "the nature and significance of these parameters could be appreciated from the work of hagedorn@xcite , and those of bielich et al@xcite and albrecht et al@xcite .",
    "the final working formula for the nucleus - nucleus collisions is now being proposed here in the form given below :",
    "@xmath30    with @xmath31 , wherein this quadratic form of parametrization is suggested here tentatively by us for analyzing data and testing its efficacy , if any and is hereafter called de - bhattacharyya parametrization(dbp ) . in the above expression @xmath32 is the normalization term which has a dependence either on the rapidity or on the rapidity - density of the produced secondary ; @xmath33 , @xmath34 and @xmath35 are constants for a specific set of projectile and target .",
    "earlier experimental works@xcite showed that @xmath17 is less than unity in the @xmath0-domain , @xmath36 gev / c . besides",
    ", it was also observed that the parameter @xmath33 , which gives the value of @xmath17 at @xmath37 , is also less than one and this value differs from collision to collision .",
    "the other two parameters @xmath34 and @xmath35 essentially determine the nature of curvature of @xmath17 .",
    "however , in the present context , precise determination of @xmath33 is not possible for the following understated reasons :    \\(i ) to make our point let us recast the expression for ( 6 ) in the form given below : @xmath38 quite obviously , we have adopted here the method of fitting .",
    "now , in eqn.(7 ) one finds that there are two constant terms @xmath32 and @xmath33 which are neither the coefficients nor the exponent terms of any function of the variable , @xmath0 . and as @xmath33 is a constant for a specific collision at a specific energy , the product of the two terms @xmath32 and @xmath39 appears as just a new constant . and , it will not be possible to obtain fit - values simultaneously for two constants of the above types through the method of fitting .",
    "\\(ii ) from eqn.(2 ) the nature of @xmath17 can easily be determined by calculating the ratio of the logarithm of the ratios of nuclear - to-@xmath1 collision and the logarithm of the product @xmath40 .",
    "thus , one can measure @xmath33 from the intercept of @xmath17 along y - axis as soon as one gets the values of @xmath41 for both @xmath40 collision and @xmath1 collision at the same c.m . energy . in the present study we have tried to consider the various collision systems in as many number as possible . to do so",
    ", we have to consider the data on normalized versions of @xmath41 for many collision systems for which clear @xmath41-data were not available to us . furthermore , from these normalized versions we can / could not extract the appropriate values of @xmath41 as the normalization terms , total inclusive cross - sections@xmath42 etc .",
    ", for these collision systems can not always be readily obtained .",
    "besides , it will also not be possible to get readily the data on inclusive spectra for @xmath1 collisions at all c.m.energies , like e.g. , at @xmath43(c.m .",
    "energy of @xmath44 collision ) .    in order to sidetrack these difficulties and also to build - up an escape - route , we have concentrated almost wholly here to the values of @xmath34 and @xmath35 for various collision systems ; and the effects of @xmath32 and @xmath33 have been compressed to a single constant term @xmath45 .",
    "hence , the final expression becomes , @xmath46 with @xmath47 .",
    "the exponent term @xmath48 obviously represents here @xmath49 $ ] instead of @xmath17 alone .",
    "thus , after obtaining fit - values of @xmath34 and @xmath35 , if @xmath49 $ ] are plotted for various collision systems , all the curves would originate from a single point , i.e. origin ; and the systems and processes are then really comparable . in other words , in this convenient way we could study and check the scaling characteristics of @xmath17 with respect to the collision systems .",
    "the expression(8 ) given above is the physical embodiment of what we have termed to be the grand combination of models(gcm ) or the combinational approach(ca ) that has been applied here .",
    "firstly , the results of @xmath1 scattering are obtained in the above on the basis of an assumption of validity of eqn.(3 ) for even the non - pion secondaries , though originally the hagedorn s model(hm ) was proposed only for pion secondaries .",
    "secondly , the route for converting the results for the non - pion secondaries produced in @xmath50 to @xmath51 or @xmath40 collisions is built up by the peitzmann s approach(pa ) represented by expression(2 ) .",
    "thirdly , the further input is the de - bhattacharyya parametrization for the nature of the exponent .",
    "thus , the gcm or the ca provides the combination of hm , pa and the dbp , and thus constitutes a single whole . and",
    "this whole is both useful and economical ; it is economical in the sense that it can accommodate vast wealth of data with only three arbitrary parameters .",
    "compared to the theoretical apparatus provided by the standard model(sm)@xcite , this number is quite low .",
    "and the choice of this quadratic form is not altogether a coincidence . in dealing with the emc effect in the lepton - nucleus collisions ,",
    "one of the authors here(sb)@xcite , made use of a polynomial form of @xmath52-dependence with the variable @xmath53(feynman scaling variable ) .",
    "this gives us a clue to make a similar choice with both @xmath0 and @xmath54 variable(s ) in each case separately .",
    "in the recent times , de - bhattacharyya parametrization is being extensively applied to interpret the measured data on the various aspects@xcite of the particle - nucleus and nucleus - nucleus interactions at high energies . in the recent past",
    "al.@xcite also made use of this sort of relationship in a somewhat different context .",
    "the underlying physics implications of this parametrization stem mainly from the expression(6 ) which could be identified as a clear mechanism for switch - over of the results obtained for nucleon - nucleon(@xmath1 ) collision to those for nucleus - nucleus interactions at high energies in a direct and straightforward manner .",
    "the polynomial exponent of the product term on @xmath40 takes care of the totality of the nuclear effects .",
    "the individual model(s ) , seen in a split manner , is(are ) certainly not new ; but the combination with the proposed two - factor quadratic @xmath0-dependence of the exponent ( called dbp in the text ) for @xmath40 or @xmath55 interactions at high energies is testably a new proposition offered by us . besides , the probing of the role of the hagedorn s model in understanding the production of non - pion secondaries in high energy collisions is another virgin feature in our work .",
    "the testing of this mechanism suggested by us is with the views of ( i ) presenting an integrated approach toward production of various kind of particle - secondaries in high energy collisions and ( ii ) providing a unified outlook to particle production in all varieties of particle - particle , particle - nucleus or nucleus - nucleus interactions at high energies .",
    "quite understandably , only by intensive analysis of data on several / all sets of collisions somewhat successfully such claims could , at all , be made , and/or later be justified .",
    "the trends that emerge from this extensive data - analysis with this grand combination of models(gcm ) has been given in the next section .    obviously , in its approach and method",
    ", this work is undoubtedly a continuation of one of our previous works@xcite .",
    "but , even at the risk of being a bit repetitive , we have to proceed and carry on . because , without these special efforts at studying on a case - to - case basis for each of the specific variety of the secondaries , we can not reasonably arrive at any definitive conclusion and also can not confirm the physical basis , if any , of our work . and",
    "the two points made very precisely in the preceding paragraph represent the strong and crucial aspects of our physics motivation behind this proposed formalism .",
    "a point is to be made .",
    "our intention here , is surely not just piling up of large bulk of data in a purposeless way ; rather we would like to make the fullest possible utilization of them for checking the proposed gcm as extensively as possible with the widest range of available data on diverse set of reactions . because , such rigorous and intensive checkings only could lead to meaningful and valid conclusions , if any . and , in our opinion",
    ", this has helped us to substantiate , to a considerable degree , the functional efficacy and strength of the proposed phenomenological model which is called here the combinational approach .",
    "in fact , the revelation of the potency and strength of this phenomenological approach is the other most striking feature which we would surely like to emphasize here .",
    "it is obvious that there are two phenomenological parameters in @xmath17 in expression(8 ) which need to be physically explained and/or identified . in compliance with this condition",
    "we offer the following physical explanations for the occurrence of all these factors .",
    "the particle - nucleus or nucleus - nucleus collisions at high energies subsequently gives rise to an expanding blob or fireball with rising temperature . in real and concrete terms",
    "this stage indicates the growing participation of the already - expanded nuclear blob .",
    "as temperature increases at this stage , the emission of highly energetic secondaries(which are mostly peripheral nucleons or baryons ) with increasing transverse momentum is perfectly possible .",
    "the coefficient @xmath34 addresses this particularity of the natural event ; and this is manifested in the enhancement of the nuclear contribution with the rise of the transverse momentum .",
    "thereafter , there is a turnabout in the state of reality .",
    "after the initial fractions of seconds , the earlier - excited nuclear matter starts to cool down and there is a clear natural contraction at this stage as the system suffers a gradual fall in temperature .",
    "finally , this leads to what one might call ` freeze - out ' stage , which results in extensive hadronization , especially in production of hadrons with very low transverse momentum . in other words , the production of large-@xmath0 particles at this stage is lowered to a considerable extent .",
    "this fact is represented by the damping or attenuation term for the production of high-@xmath0 particles .",
    "the factor @xmath35 with negative values takes care of this state of physical reality .",
    "thus the function denoted by @xmath17 symbolizes the totality of the features of the expansion - contraction dynamical scenario in the after - collision stage .",
    "this interpretation is , at present , only of very suggestive nature .",
    "however , let us make some further clarifications .",
    "the physical foundation that has here been attempted to be built up is inspired by thermodynamic pictures , whereas the quantitative calculations are based on a sort of pqcd - motivated power - law formula represented by eqn.(6 ) .",
    "this seems to be somewhat paradoxical , because it would be hard to justify the hypothesis of local thermal equilibrium in multihadron systems produced by high energy collisions in terms of successive collision of the qcd - partons(like quarks and gluons ) excited or created in the course of the overall process .",
    "except exclusively for central heavy ion collisions , a typical parton can only undergo very few interactions before the final - state hadrons ` freeze out ' , i.e. escape as free particles or resonances .",
    "the fact is the hadronic system , before the freeze - out starts , expands a great deal  both longitudinally and transversally  while these very few interactions take place@xcite .",
    "but the number of parton interactions is just one of the several other relevant factors for the formation of local equilibrium . of equal importance",
    "is the parton distribution produced early in the collision process .",
    "this early distribution is supposed to be a superposition of collective flow and highly randomized internal motions in each space cell which helps the system to achieve a situation close to the equilibrium leading to the appropriate values of collective variables including concerned and/or almost concerned quantities .",
    "the parameter @xmath34 in expression(6 ) is somehow related to the measure of the ratio of the net binary collision number to the total permissible number among the constituent partons in the pre - freeze out expanding stage identified to be a sort of explosive ` detonation'@xcite stage .",
    "this is approximated by a superposition of collective flow and thermalized internal motion , which is a function of hadronic temperature manifested in the behaviour of the average transverse momentum .",
    "the post freeze - out hadron production scenario is taken care of by the soft interaction which is proportional@xcite to the number of participant nucleons , @xmath56 , according to almost any variety of wounded nuclear model .",
    "the factor @xmath35 , we conjecture , might have a relationship with the ratio of the actual participating nucleons to the total number of maximum allowable(participating ) nucleons .",
    "in fact , this sort of physical explanations is reproduced here from some of our previous works@xcite .",
    "at the very start we study the @xmath0-spectra for @xmath57 , @xmath9 and @xmath10 inclusive production in @xmath1 collisions at several energies and try to fit the expression in the formula(3 ) given in the previous section .",
    "the graphs are shown in the several diagrams in fig.1 for kaons , protons and antiprotons .",
    "the fits for the average kaon yield and antiproton production in @xmath2 reactions have also been obtained(fig.2 ) on the basis of hagedorn s model(eqn.(3 ) ) . the same",
    "could not be done for proton production in @xmath2 reactions due to unavailability of the measured experimental data in this particular collisions .",
    "the obtained fitted - values of the parameters , @xmath29 and @xmath21 , for different secondaries produced in @xmath58 collisions at different energies have been displayed in table - i - table - v .",
    "the graphs for @xmath22-dependences of @xmath29 and @xmath21 , as proposed in eqn.(4 ) and eqn.(5 ) , have been depicted in fig.3 and the necessary values of the parameters , @xmath25 , @xmath27 , @xmath26 and @xmath28 have been presented in table - vi . while plotting graphs we have obviously assumed that at very high energies the proton - proton and proton - antiproton collisions could be treated at par and with the acceptance of equivalence between each other .",
    "hereafter , in studying the nature of @xmath0-spectra in all nucleon - nucleus and nucleus - nucleus collisions , the interaction energy in all cases of nucleus - induced reactions is invariably converted first into the c.m .",
    "system values , that is expressed in @xmath59 , then the values of @xmath29 and @xmath21 are picked up from the graphical plots drawn already and shown by fig.3 . while analyzing nucleus - dependence with expression(8 ) and trying with the fit parameters @xmath45 , @xmath34 and @xmath35 , we have inserted these extracted values of @xmath29 and @xmath21 for @xmath1 cross section term occurring in the expression(8 ) given above .",
    "however , the plots presented in fig.3 deserve special mention from phenomenological points of view .",
    "the @xmath29 and @xmath21 values for production of the same secondary at various energies ( @xmath22-values ) show very slow fall - off with energy in these graphs .",
    "the nearness of values of @xmath60 signals a march towards a steady state of hadronization .",
    "once the natures are established by the theoretical procedures adopted for either @xmath58 reactions at high or very high energies , we would be compelled , for the sake of consistency , to reduce / minimize the degree of arbitrariness in choosing values of @xmath29 and @xmath21 for nucleon - nucleus or nucleus - nucleus collisions . as soon as the values of @xmath61 is given for a specific interaction , the values of @xmath29 and @xmath21",
    "are to be obtained from the theoretical plots of them shown in fig.3(a ) , fig.3(b ) and fig.3(c ) for different secondaries and/or for different collision(s ) .",
    "the diagrams given in fig.4 to fig.8 do actually provide the nature of collected data and also the theoretical descriptions for diverse reactions indicated by the labels in each diagram .",
    "the solid curves represent the results arrived at on the basis of the new combination of models(ncm ) and the use of de - bhattacharyya parametrization(dbp ) . and",
    "the totality of this combination of ncm and dbp is called grand combination of models(gcm ) . and the tables ( displayed by table - vii to table - ix )",
    "provide the necessary parameter values that have entered into each calculation of the theoretical solid curves in all the diagrams of fig.4-fig.8 for various reactions . in some cases , due to lack of availability of clear proton data ,",
    "we have used the net proton(@xmath62 ) data with the assumption of the near equivalence and as an approximate measure .",
    "the diagrams presented in fig.9(a ) to fig.9(c ) are full of physical import and convey the message of mass number scaling of nuclear reactions .",
    "the deviations , whenever and wherever if any , from this observation could be attributed , in the main , to the following few points : ( i ) limits of uncertainties in the measurements ; ( ii ) some unavoidable approximations in theoretical calculations ; and ( iii ) availability , in some cases , of only too sparse and rare data on which reliability is certainly questionable .    obviously , we present here the gcm - based analyses of extensive sets of data on some of the observables measured by the various experimental groups in high energy particle and nuclear physics . the study has , thus , given rise to some crucial observations with revelations of following systematic trends : ( a ) for the non - pion secondaries produced in nucleus - nucleus collisions at high energies the nature of fits is not as good as in @xmath1 reaction , especially at low momentum region , and especially for @xmath63 vs. @xmath0 plots .",
    "the reason(s ) for this discrepancy would be discussed later in the last section .",
    "( b ) the fit parameters @xmath29 and @xmath21 for production of secondary kaon(s ) and protons are , by ascription , different in the basic @xmath1 reactions . and",
    "this is consistent with the theoretical expectations .",
    "the factor @xmath60 has , we recognize , a relationship with the slope parameter of the @xmath0-spectra . and the slope parameters for the lighter and heavier particles , one knows , are not the same .",
    "but , quite interestingly , the nature of @xmath22-dependences of @xmath29 and @xmath21 values of all three species , kaons , protons and antiprotons , as shown in fig.3(a)-3(b ) , are qualitatively quite alike.(c ) it is quite evident from the tables vii , viii , and ix that the values of @xmath34 and @xmath35 are too close .",
    "this , in our opinion , reflects the basic fact that the nuclear effects are quite finite and certainly not too pronounced even with the heaviest of the nuclei and the highest available energies .",
    "in the end let us summarize our main findings from the present study in the following way :    1 .   quite naturally and predictably , the @xmath64 values shown in table - vii - ix present , at times , sharply contrasting nature , because of either very sparse available data and that too for a narrow region of @xmath0-values , or large ranges of errors and uncertainties in the measurements . 2 .",
    "still , on the whole , the approach describes modestly well the large bulk of data on kaon - antikaon and proton - antiproton production phenomena in high energy nucleon - nucleus and nucleus - nucleus collisions .",
    "3 .   related with production of @xmath57 and @xmath65 , the c.m .",
    "energy - dependences of the parameter values occurring in the basic @xmath1 reactions are of the same hyperbolic nature as in the cases of pions .",
    "this element of observation on similarity aspect of @xmath4 and @xmath65 with pions is certainly a new finding here made by us , as hagedorn s early work@xcite was made exclusively on pions .",
    "4 .   besides , the entire energy - dependences , even in purely nuclear collisions , are manifested by only the basic @xmath1 interaction ; the nuclear geometry exhibits no separate energy behaviour .",
    "this is quite significant in the sense that it might be a great hint to and confirmation of the enormous importance of @xmath1 interaction even in understanding the nature of heavy ion collisions .",
    "the observation of the close values of @xmath34 in various sets of nuclear collisions with varying pair of projectile and target and at different energies is another interesting finding .",
    "it indicates that enhancement due to nuclear contribution could never assume too large values , even with the heaviest of the nuclei , though the parameters are uniformly non - zero for each and every collision and the values are limited .",
    "this does , in effect , imply the very finite degree of the nuclear effects .",
    "the constraint would appear more severe and acute , if the diminutive role of the @xmath35 factor is reckoned with .",
    "this might be attributed to the large baryon stopping effect in heavy ion collisions .",
    "+ besides , the small positive @xmath34-values in any collission represent physically the nuclear enhancement  though certainly not of ` anomalous ' nature  called cronin effect .",
    "secondly , the negative @xmath35-values might explain the suppressions of productions of hadrons at relatively large values of the transverse momenta .",
    "even with some heaviest nuclei , the observations from fig.9(a ) to fig.9(c ) on the validity of a sort of mass - number(@xmath52 ) scaling for production of both strange and non - strange variety of hadrons constitute an interesting and probeworthy point .",
    "physically , this might signal the limit to the finite degree of impact parameter dependence of nuclear collisions .",
    "the near - saturation of the parameter value at and after certain magnitude of @xmath40 indicates the stringent limit on both the number of binary collisions and the number of participating nucleons in the colliding nuclei .",
    "the reason for observation of departure of the fits from the data on @xmath0-spectra produced in nuclear collisions , especially at low @xmath0 region , could be ascribed , in the main , to the following reasons .",
    "firstly , because for the nucleus - involved collisions , the measurements in the experiments on purely soft collisions are very difficult , as hard collision effects are almost unavoidably present there .",
    "secondly , the measurements of the factor @xmath63 through the array of several detectors have always an intrinsic simulation - based standard - model ( mainly the hijing version ) component , for which the obtained data are not the pure products of experimental measurements alone .",
    "but the present model can , in no way , accommodate such sorts of superposition effects .",
    "the property of ` universality ' of hadronic , hadronuclear and nuclear reactions at very high energies is also vindicated by the approach adopted here .    the implications of all these are obvious .",
    "with the series of such modestly successful ventures , the combinational approach attains a plateau and assumes a potential to claim the status of an alternative approach to understand functionally some aspects of the heavy ion collisions in general , and the nature of @xmath0/rapidity - spectra in @xmath51 or @xmath40 collisions in particular .    however , we must not gloss over the gross limitations of the present approach which are as follows : ( i ) it is a fact that we could , so far , offer no measure to estimate quantitatively the values of @xmath34 and @xmath35 .",
    "the hints are , uptil now , of only very qualitative nature .",
    "( ii ) quite admittedly , the physical explanations outlined here for @xmath34 and @xmath35 are also of tentative nature ; they have , still , not been identified concretely with any of the known physical observables in the domain of collision dynamics for multiple production of hadrons and of nuclear geometry as well .",
    "( iii ) the calculations for particle - nucleus or nucleus - nucleus interaction cases are absolutely dependent on the apriori and data - based knowledge of the production characteristics of the same particle species in @xmath1 reactions at various energies . without it ,",
    "the method is ineffective and that is a major handicap .",
    "( iv ) the approach fails to respond to the very basic query on actual mechanisms for particle production processes in any collision .",
    "( v ) and just because of it , the approach is insensitive to the charge - state of the specific secondary produced in any high energy interaction and that is certainly a great difficulty .",
    "so , unless these problems could be remedied to a great extent , we accept that we have no reasons for complacency .    *",
    "r. c. hwa and c. b. yang : nucl - th/0301004(02 january 2003 ) .",
    "y. zhang et al : phys . rev .",
    "* c 65 * ( 2003 ) 034903 .",
    "p. staszel(brahms collaboration ) : act .",
    "phys . pol .",
    "* b 33 * ( 2002 ) 1387 .",
    "bhaskar de , s. bhattacharyya and p. guptaroy : jour .",
    "g 28*(2002)2963 .",
    "bhaskar de , s.bhattacharyya and p.guptaroy : int .",
    "phys . * a 17*(2002)4615 .",
    "m.a.faessler : phys . rep . *",
    "115*(1984 ) 1 .",
    "t.peitzmann : phys . lett . * b 450*(1999 ) 7 .",
    "h.r.schmidt and j.schukraft : j. phys . * g 19*(1993 ) 1705 .",
    "r.hagedorn : riv .",
    "cim . * 6*(1983 ) 1 .",
    "j.s.bielich et al : nucl .",
    "phys . * a 705*(2002 ) 494 .",
    "r.albrecht et al(wa80 collaboration ) : eur . phys",
    "* c 5*(1998 ) 255 .",
    "d.antreasyan et al : phys . rev .",
    "* d 19*(1979 ) 764 .",
    "m.m.aggarwal et al(wa98 collaboration ) : eur . phys",
    "* c 23 * ( 2002 ) 225 .",
    "j.ellis : int .",
    "phys . * a 17*(2002 ) 3284 .",
    "s.bhattacharyya : lett .",
    "* 44*(1985)119 .",
    "r.c.hwa et .",
    "phys . rev . * c 64*(2001)054611 .",
    "l.van-hove : z. phys .",
    "* c 21*(1983)93 .",
    "s.y.li and x.n.wang : phys . lett .",
    "* b 527*(2002)85 .",
    "bhaskar de , s.bhattacharyya and p.guptaroy : eur .",
    "jour . * a 16*(2003)415 ; bhaskar de , s.bhattacharyya and p.guptaroy : int .",
    "* a 13*(2002)2367",
    ". b. alper et al : nucl .",
    "* b 100*(1975 ) 237 .",
    "t. alexopoulos et al(e735 collaboration ) : phys .",
    "d 48*(1993 ) 984 .",
    "j. baechler et al : z. phys .",
    "* c 58*(1993 ) 367 .",
    "t. alber et al(na35 collaboration ) : eur .",
    "* c 2*(1998)643 .",
    "h. boggild et al(na44 collaboration ) : phys . rev .",
    "* c 59*(1999 ) 328 .",
    "i. g. bearden et al(na44 collaboration ) : phys .",
    "* c 57*(1998 ) 837 .",
    "i. g. bearden et al(na44 collaboration ) : phys",
    "* c 66*(2002 ) 044907 . t. alber et al(na35 collaboration ) : phys . lett . * b 366*(1996)56 .",
    "j. velkovska : nucl . phys . * a 698*(2002 ) 507 .        vs. @xmath0 for various secondaries produced in @xmath67 collisions at @xmath68 gev .",
    "the various experimental points are taken from ref.@xcite .",
    "the solid curves provide the fits on the basis of eqn.8.,width=264 ]     vs. @xmath0 for various secondaries produced in @xmath67 collisions at @xmath68 gev .",
    "the various experimental points are taken from ref.@xcite .",
    "the solid curves provide the fits on the basis of eqn.8.,width=264 ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in continuation of our perusal of the studies on transverse momentum spectra for the main varieties of secondaries from a consistent and comprehensive phenomenological approach , we propose to take up here  after a successful completion of reporting in detail the results ( ref.@xcite in the text ) on our analyses of the @xmath0-spectra of pions  the studies specially on production of kaons , protons and antiprotons in several proton - induced and nucleus - involved collisions at high energies . the measured data on inclusive cross sections of kaons , protons and antiprotons from the various published sources have here been assorted first . </S>",
    "<S> next , data on the @xmath0-spectra of the specific secondaries produced in @xmath1 and @xmath2 reactions have been scanned and analyzed with the help of hagedorn s model(hm ) . </S>",
    "<S> thereafter a connector , named here the combinational approach(ca ) , has been constructed and used to analyze the data on @xmath0-spectra of some major category of non - pion secondaries produced in nucleus - nucleus(@xmath3 ) collisions at high energies . and these exercises have , finally , led to the modestly successful interpretations of a wide band of data with the revelation of some insightful physical aspects of high energy interactions . </S>",
    "<S> the limitations of the approach have also been precisely pointed out in the end . </S>"
  ]
}