{
  "article_text": [
    "physically , dark spatial solitons ( dsss ) are localized intensity dips existing on stable background beams as a result of an exact counterbalance of diffraction and nonlinearity .",
    "a necessary condition for their existence is the presence of a phase dislocation in the wavefront along which the phase is indeterminate and the field amplitude is zero . besides the intriguing physical picture ,",
    "the particular interest in the dsss is motivated by their ability to induce gradient optical waveguides in bulk self - defocusing nonlinear media @xcite .",
    "the only known truly two - dimensional ( 2d ) dsss are the optical vortex solitons ( ovss ) @xcite , whereas in one transverse spatial dimension dsss manifest themselves as dark stripes @xcite .",
    "the odd initial conditions required to generate a fundamental 1d dss correspond to an abrupt @xmath0-phase jump centered along the irradiance minimum of the stripe .",
    "the ovss have a more complicated phase profile described by @xmath1 , where @xmath2 is the azimuthal coordinate in a plane perpendicular to the background beam propagation direction and @xmath3  the so - called topological charge ( tc )  is an integer number .",
    "this phase function ensures a @xmath0-phase jump in each diametrical slice through the vortex core .",
    "fundamental dsss of these types have the common feature of zero transverse velocity if no perturbations are present .",
    "in contrast to that , ring dark solitary waves @xcite slowly change their parameters even when born from ideal odd initial conditions @xcite .    in the pioneering work of nye and berry @xcite",
    "it is conjectured that mixed edge - screw dislocations can not exist . despite that",
    ", almost two decades later an indication for their existence was found @xcite for two interacting optical vortices of opposite topological charges . in our recent experiments on the generation of quasi-2d dsss @xcite we found that moderate saturation of the nonlinearity can stabilize the snake instability which usually leads to their decay .",
    "this made possible the first identification of 1d odd dark beams ( odbs ) of finite length with their characteristic edge - screw phase dislocations @xcite .",
    "the mixed dislocation forces the dark beams to steer in space .",
    "this appears to be of practical interest @xcite provided that there are effective ways to control the odbs transverse velocity .    in this article",
    "we report the first experimental realization of steering odd dark beams of finite length with mixed phase dislocations under controllable initial conditions .",
    "two approaches to control their transverse velocity are investigated experimentally and compared with numerical simulations .",
    "the phase portrait of the mixed edge - screw dislocation ( see fig .  1 in ref.@xcite ) consists of a pair of semi - helices with a phase difference of @xmath0 to which an effective topological charge of @xmath4 can be ascribed .",
    "their spatial offset @xmath5 determines the length of the edge part of the dislocation and ensures a phase jump of @xmath6 in the direction perpendicular to the dark stripe of finite length .",
    "the phase function of this mixed phase dislocation can be described by @xmath7 where @xmath8 and @xmath9 denote the transverse cartesian coordinates perpendicular and parallel to the dark beam .",
    "@xmath5 stands for the length of the edge part of the dislocation and @xmath10    the pattern of the computer - generated holograms ( cghs ) used to produce this phase distribution consists of parallel lines which become curved at the position of the semi - vortex cores . in the edge part of",
    "the dislocation they terminate and reappear shifted , for a @xmath0-jump by one half of the pattern period .",
    "holograms with such structures correspond to interference lines shifted along an imaginary line of finite length and to curved lines limiting the dislocations as observed in our previous experiment ( see fig .  8 in @xcite ) .",
    "the binary cghs used are photolithographically fabricated with a grating period of @xmath11 .",
    "several holograms with various lengths of the edge part of the dislocation are etched on a common substrate .",
    "special attention was paid to align the edge parts of the different dislocations correctly on their common substrate .",
    "the simplicity of varying the dislocation length and magnitude of the phase jump is the main advantage @xcite of the approach we have chosen .",
    "the diffraction efficiency at first orders is measured to be @xmath12 , close to the theoretical @xmath13 limit for binary holograms .",
    "the unavoidable quantization inaccuracy of @xmath14 @xcite for holograms of this type is negligible for measurements with phase jumps of @xmath15 , @xmath0 , and @xmath16 which are presented in this work .",
    "the setup used is similar to that in our previous experiments ( see fig .  1 in ref.@xcite ) .",
    "briefly , the beam of a single - line @xmath17 laser ( @xmath18 ) is used to reconstruct the cghs . the first - diffraction - order beam with the phase dislocation nested in is filtered through a slit and is focused on the entrance of the @xmath19 long nonlinear medium ( nlm ) . after the desired propagation path length , the beam is deflected by a prism immersed in the nonlinear liquid and is projected directly on a charge - coupled device ( ccd ) camera array with a resolution of @xmath20 .",
    "the nlm is ethylene glycol dyed with dodci ( lambdachrome ) to reach an absorption coefficient of @xmath21 . in a calibration measurement we generated 1d dsss by using cghs of the type described in sec .",
    "[ teil0 ] .",
    "the soliton constant @xmath22 ( i.e. the product of the background - beam intensity @xmath23 and the square of the dark beam width @xmath24 measured at the @xmath25-level ) was found to reach its asymptotically constant value for input powers of @xmath26 .",
    "it is known that thermally self - defocusing liquids are both nonlocal and saturable .",
    "since the saturation of the nonlinearity is able to modify the odbs transverse velocity and profile , we needed to estimate it and to account for it in our numerical calculations . in an independent measurement",
    "we realized a self - bending scheme similar to that used in @xcite .",
    "the asymmetry required was introduced by an intentional tilt of the prism immersed in the nlm , which resulted in different nonlinear propagation path - lengths for the different parts of the background beam .",
    "the strength of the self - bending effect was measured in the near field . for an absorptive nonlocal medium",
    "the choice of a suitable saturation model is not trivial ( @xcite , see also sec .",
    "iv of @xcite ) .",
    "we found a good fit for the experimental data with the equation @xmath27 . using it we estimated @xmath28 and @xmath29 .",
    "in addition to the careful alignment of the cghs on the substrate , the holograms were reproduced to achieve _ vertical _ dark beam steering , which is not sensitive to possible undesired weak horizontal self - deflection of the background beam . changing the odb parameters ( length - to - width ratio and magnitude of the phase jump )",
    "was performed by a strict horizontal translation of the substrate .",
    "the accuracy of the alignment was tested by checking for equal steering of the odbs reproduced from two identical holograms placed at opposite ends of the series of aligned cghs . in this work",
    "the odbs are identified by the corresponding lengths @xmath5 of the edge portions of the dislocations in cgh pixels ( @xmath30 ) as encoded in the holograms .",
    "the deflection @xmath31 of the dark beams is measured in units of ccd camera pixels .",
    "we estimate that measurements with an encoded dislocation length of @xmath32 cgh pixels corresponds to a dislocation length - to - odb width ratio @xmath33 in the numerical simulations ( e.g. 14 pix .",
    "dislocation length corresponds to @xmath34 in the simulations ) .",
    "all data presented in this subsection refer to @xmath0 phase jumps across the edge parts of the mixed dislocations . in fig .",
    "1a we plot the deflection @xmath31 of odbs with different dislocation lengths for input powers of @xmath35 ( circles ) , @xmath36 ( triangles ) and @xmath37 ( squares ) .",
    "the data obtained at @xmath38 refer to a linear regime of propagation .",
    "the results at @xmath36 and @xmath37 are extracted from the experimental pictures shown in fig .",
    "1b and fig .  1c , respectively , which are recorded for a nonlinear propagation path length of @xmath39 . the general tendency of linear increase of the deflection with decreasing the dislocation length is clearly expressed ( fig",
    "1a , solid line ) .",
    "the shortest mixed phase dislocation encoded was only @xmath40 long . in this case",
    "the strong deviation from the linear dependence is caused by the annihilation of the semi - charges due to the shortening of the edge part of the dislocation .",
    "it will be shown later that this shortening accelerates for higher input powers ( intensities ) .",
    "for that reason , even the odb with an initially @xmath41 long phase dislocation appears gradually less deflected at @xmath42 as compared to the case of @xmath43 ( fig .",
    "1a ) . in fig .",
    "1b , c the thick solid lines are intended to denote the positions of the odbs at the entrance of the nlm . because odb steering is present also in the linear regime of propagation ( fig .  1a , dots )",
    "these positions ( with respect to the dark beam intensity minimum and trailing peak maximum ) are identified by numerical simulations for @xmath44 .",
    "the identification corresponds to an encoded dislocation length of @xmath45 , i.e. to the most right frame shown in fig .",
    "somewhat surprising is the weak sensitivity of the odb deflection vs. background beam power ( intensity ) far from tc annihilation .",
    "it can be intuitively understood by recalling the known interaction scenario of well - separated ovss of opposite tcs @xcite . in this case",
    "the attraction between the ovss is negligible as compared to their translation as a pair . at a constant input power of @xmath36",
    "we measured the odb deflection vs. nonlinear propagation path length ( fig .  2 ) . as expected , the odb with @xmath41 long dislocation has higher transverse velocity than that one with @xmath46 long dislocation .",
    "the linearity in the dependencies is also well pronounced .      as a second possible way to control the dark beam deflection , we considered the variations in the magnitude of the phase jump @xmath6 across the edge part of the mixed dislocation . in fig .",
    "3 we compare the experimental dependencies @xmath47 ( squares ) and @xmath48 ( dots ) .",
    "the straight lines are the respective linear fits .",
    "because a problem in encoding a larger set of phase jumps in the cghs was recognized too late , we measured the deflection @xmath31 at @xmath49 , @xmath50 , and @xmath51 only . in view of that the linear fit of the phase dependence in fig .",
    "3 appears to be assailable .",
    "its linearity , however , is confirmed by numerical simulations ( see sec .",
    "[ teil2 ] ) .",
    "the dependence of @xmath31 on @xmath52 and @xmath53 has been plotted in one figure in order to underline the fact that it appears to be easier to deflect the odb by controlling the phase than by controlling the dislocation length .",
    "the measurements are performed at a constant power of @xmath36 .",
    "the ability of the dark spatial solitons @xcite ( and the dark spatial waves @xcite ) to induce gradient all - optical waveguides in bulk self - defocusing nlm originates in the negative nonlinear correction to the linear refractive indices of the media . in view of that",
    ", the intensity dependencies remain undoubtfully of interest , despite of the low sensitivity of the odb steering on the input power ( intensity ) . in fig .",
    "4 we present experimental data on the power dependence of the length of the edge portion of the mixed dislocation for @xmath54 and for two different lengths of @xmath55 and @xmath56 encoded in the holograms .",
    "it is easy to understand that the ( mixed ) phase dislocations do not remain sharp and of an unchanged magnitude when the ( odd ) dark beam steers @xcite .",
    "the dislocation lengths are estimated by evaluating the respective longitudinal odb slices at @xmath57 of the background beam intensity ( i.e. at the actual noise level in the recorded frames ) .",
    "generally , the dislocation length decreases monotonically with increasing the input power .",
    "asymptotically , the dislocation flattens and disappears , provided that the ratio @xmath58 is less than 2 .",
    "as mentioned in @xcite , at @xmath59 the odbs should be expected to bend due to the snake instability @xcite .",
    "in fact we observed such a behavior for odbs with encoded dislocation lengths ranging from 4 to 6 .",
    "a vortex - beam creation is recognized by the convergence of two neighboring interference lines in one . however , the vortices formed by this instability remained with highly overlapping cores @xcite .    in fig .",
    "5a , b we plot the measured odb widths ( a ) and their lengths ( b ) at the @xmath25-level as a function of the background beam power .",
    "the initial lengths of the mixed phase dislocations are denoted in pixels as encoded on the respective cghs , whereas the widths and lengths at the exit of the nlm are measured in units of ccd camera pixels .",
    "the strong decrease in both the odb width and length up to @xmath60 ( approximately @xmath61 ) is followed by an approximate recovering of the width and length at approximately @xmath62 . at higher input powers",
    "both transverse quantities decrease but the tendency is slower as compared to the situation below @xmath61 and stabilizes asymptotically at high saturation . as it will be discussed in the next section , the minima in the curves plotted in fig .",
    "5a , b result from the reshaping of the od beams at the particular @xmath25 intensity - level chosen for evaluation .",
    "the estimation there shows that the first rapid decrease in both transverse dimensions of the odbs does not correspond to a ` soliton constant ' formation . generally speaking",
    ", the odbs analyzed are no solitary waves in the widely adopted sense , since they do not survive , for instance , a collision with a second odb steering in the opposite direction @xcite .",
    "nevertheless , the narrowing in both transverse directions for higher powers ( intensities ) should improve their guiding ability when signal beams or pulses are to be transmitted inside the odbs and deflected in space .",
    "this feature will be addressed elsewhere .",
    "it is interesting to note that , independent of the length of the mixed dislocations ( @xmath5 ) , the widths ( @xmath24 ) of the dislocations should be initially equal ( in the near field behind the cghs ) , but appeared different near the entrance of the nlm .",
    "the estimation has shown a cgh - to - nlm distance of approximately 4 rayleigh diffraction lengths with respect to the initial odb width . the well pronounced separation between the curves in fig .",
    "5a should be attributed to the different two - dimensional diffraction at different initial odb length - to - width ratios .",
    "in our numerical simulations we tried to model the experimentally obtained dependencies by accounting for the estimated moderate saturation of the nonlinearity ( @xmath63 ; @xmath64 at @xmath29 ; see sec .",
    "[ teil1.2 ] ) .",
    "the @xmath65-dimensional nonlinear evolution of the steering odb of finite length in the bulk homogeneous and isotropic nlm is described by the generalized nonlinear schrdinger equation @xmath66 where the transverse spatial coordinates are normalized to the initial dark - beam width @xmath67 , and the propagation path length is expressed in rayleigh diffraction lengths @xmath68 .",
    "further , @xmath69 is the nonlinear length , @xmath70 is the wavenumber inside the nlm , and @xmath71 is the background beam intensity .",
    "the adopted correction for the nonlinear refractive index is @xmath72 with @xmath73 . as it was done in @xcite , the slowly varying electric - field amplitude of the odb",
    "was chosen @xmath74-shaped",
    "@xmath75 e^{i\\phi_{\\alpha,\\beta}(x , y)},\\ ] ] where @xmath76 is the effective cartesian / radial coordinate , @xmath77 is the phase distribution of the mixed edge - screw dislocation ( see eq .",
    "[ gleich1 ] ) , and @xmath78 and @xmath79 are given by eq .",
    "[ gleich2 ] . the width @xmath80 of the super - gaussian background beam @xmath81",
    "is chosen to exceed at least 15 times the odb lengths . the model equation ( [ schroedinger ] )",
    "was solved numerically by the beam propagation method on a @xmath82 grid .",
    "it should be mentioned , that the initial width @xmath83 of the odb of finite length was chosen to correspond to that of an infinite 1d odss ( @xmath84 ) .",
    "it was proven numerically that the odb deflection is insensitive to the particular value of @xmath24 , and figs .",
    "6 - 8 are generated under this assumption .",
    "actually , the nonlinearity causes an appreciable reshaping of the beams , in particular in the first evolution stage when the odb starts steering , see fig .  2 in ref .",
    "@xcite ) . in order to improve the similarity between the experimental data ( figs .  4 and 5 ) and the numerical results ( figs .",
    "9 and 10 ) , an initial odb width twice as large as in the experiment is assumed . in fig .",
    "6 we plot the odb deflection vs. @xmath85 for different input powers ( intensities ) .",
    "all data presented in this section refer to a normalized propagation path length of @xmath86 , which corresponds to that estimated for the experiment .",
    "nevertheless all calculations are carried out up to @xmath87 whereby no qualitative deviation from the tendencies discussed is seen .",
    "the linearity in the odb deflection vs. @xmath58 is well obeyed except for @xmath88 .",
    "the longer odbs steer slower , bend slightly , and decay into pairs of vortex beams for @xmath89 . in the linear regime of propagation ,",
    "the odbs also deflect but the deflection is stronger at higher input powers / intensities .",
    "this is more pronounced for shorter dislocations . in the experimental data ( fig .",
    "1a ) , this behavior is much weaker , rather the deflection remains within the experimental accuracy .",
    "looking for an adequate explanation , in a series of simulations we checked that a @xmath90 inaccuracy in estimating @xmath91 results only in @xmath92 deviation in the odb deflection at @xmath86 .",
    "the observed tendency of a decrease of the odb steering velocities at increased saturation is well understood @xcite but seems insufficient in quantity .",
    "we attribute the absence of a well expressed power dependence in fig .",
    "1a to the nlm nonlocality . in a separate experiment",
    "it was estimated , that the nonlocality in this medium is negligible on a spatial scale of several hundred of micrometers only @xcite .    in fig .",
    "7 we plot the odb deflection vs. the nonlinear propagation path length @xmath93 for @xmath94 and @xmath95 . as in the previous figure the magnitude of the edge part of the phase dislocation",
    "is set to @xmath96 .",
    "ones the odb starts steering , its transverse velocity remains constant ( see fig .  2 ) .",
    "the longer odbs with longer edge dislocations , however , emit dispersive waves in their first evolution stage ( @xmath97 ) .",
    "this causes a ` delay ' in the steering along the nlm ( fig .  7 , lower curve ) .    in fig",
    ".  8 we present results obtained for the phase - dependent control of the odb deflection at different input powers ( intensities ) . in qualitative agreement with the experimental observation , the linear increase in the odb steering with decreasing the magnitude of the phase jump down to @xmath98 is evident .",
    "the comparison of figs .",
    "6 and 8 confirms the conclusion that at a fixed nonlinear propagation distance the phase - controlled odb deflection is more efficient as compared to that by varying the @xmath58 ratio .",
    "9 is intended to clarify the origin of the non - monotonic power dependencies of the odb widths ( and lengths ) observed at input powers below @xmath62 ( see fig .  5 ) .",
    "the solid line represents the odb full width at half maximum ( fwhm ) , the dashed one the full width at the @xmath25-intensity level . in these simulations @xmath54 and @xmath34 are assumed .",
    "qualitatively , we obtained the same curves also for @xmath99 by accounting for the initial free - space propagation in the experiment ( from the cgh to the entrance of the nlm ; @xmath100 ) .",
    "the minimum in the odb width evaluated at the @xmath25 level originates from the reshaping of the beam profile which is caused by the moderate saturation .",
    "a similar reshaping is reported in @xcite ( see figs .  2 - 4 therein ) . at @xmath99",
    "the data obtained for the odb length vs. input power ( intensity ) were found to be even more sensitive to the intensity level of evaluation . because of the transverse steering of the odbs of finite length the edge portions of the dislocations shorten monotonically with increasing the background beam power ( intensity ) ( fig .",
    "the numerical results are in a very good qualitative agreement with the experimental ones ( fig .  4 ) .",
    "the results presented show that the inherent steering dynamics of odd dark beams of finite length can be effectively controlled by varying both the magnitude @xmath6 and the relative length @xmath58 of the mixed edge - screw phase dislocation .",
    "the background - beam intensity has weak influence on the steering but is important for keeping the optically - induced gradient waveguides steep , which is crucial for all - optical guiding , deflection and switching of signal beams or pulses .",
    "since the mixed phase dislocations shorten and flatten along the nonlinear media ( tending asymptotically to washout ) the odbs seem to be promising primarily for future short - range all - optical switching devices .    a. d. would like to thank the alexander von humboldt foundation for the award of a fellowship and the opportunity to work in the stimulating atmosphere of the max - planck - institut fr quantenoptik ( garching , germany ) .",
    "this work was also supported by the national science foundation of bulgaria ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this work we report the first realization of odd dark beams of finite length under controllable initial conditions . </S>",
    "<S> the mixed edge - screw phase dislocations are obtained by reproducing binary computer - generated holograms . </S>",
    "<S> two effective ways to control the steering of the beams are analyzed experimentally and compared with numerical simulations . </S>"
  ]
}