{
  "article_text": [
    "in studying biological , linguistic , and social systems , one is generally interested in understanding how a rule for the temporal evolution of a system is organized through the dynamics of the system itself . to construct a model of such a system as a dynamical system or to simulate it using a computer , however",
    ", we need to supply a rule for the temporal evolution of the system . it would thus seem that the goal of understanding the spontaneously emergence of such a rule in biological systems through such modeling is difficult to achieve .",
    "for example , in a dynamical systems approach to the modeling of such a system , a rule governing the evolution of a set of variables takes the form of a set of equations .",
    "then , in a naive attempt to realize the goal stated above , we may introduce a dynamical system describing the evolution of these equations , as a ` rule forming ' dynamics .",
    "however , the resulting ` dynamical dynamical system ' would be nothing but a high - dimensional dynamical system . with the same goal in mind , then",
    ", we would need to introduce another dynamical system to describe the change undergone by this high - dimensional system .",
    "we thus see how a naive attempt to realize the spontaneous emergence of a fundamental dynamics - governing rule results in an infinite hierarchy of systems and necessarily meets with failure .    in this paper",
    ", we consider a model with the potentiality to form such a hierarchy spontaneously within an infinite - dimensional dynamical system .",
    "we will show that low - dimensional dynamical systems are generated from the original infinite - dimensional dynamical system .",
    "the generation of such low - dimensional systems constitutes the generation of a dynamic - governing rule .",
    "we elucidate the mechanism for this rule generation .    to serve the present purpose of studying biological systems , the function dynamics ( fd ) that we previously introduced @xcite@xcite@xcite",
    "is reformulated in sec.2 . in this fd",
    ", we adopt a functional equation having a ` self - reference ' term , i.e. , a term including composition of a function ( say @xmath0 ) . with this term",
    ", it is shown that a rule governing the dynamics of partial functions restricted to certain intervals is generated .",
    "this rule is determined by partial functions on other intervals . with this relationship among partial functions ,",
    "low - dimensional dynamical systems are formed from the original infinite dimensional dynamical system .",
    "accordingly , the function dynamics of the original system can be interpreted as dynamics over partial functions . from this point of view , the partial functions can be considered elements in a self - organized , low - dimensional system that evolves together while mutually generating rules that govern each other s dynamics .",
    "we first demonstrate that function dynamics generates rules hierarchically among partial functions .",
    "then , we find that the relationships among partial functions are sometimes entangled , in the sense that one partial function gives a rule for some other partial functions , which give a rule for the original partial function . the formation of successive rules for low - dimensional systems and this entanglement of rules is analyzed .    in sec.3 ,",
    "formation of low - dimensional dynamical systems is studied , and in the sec.4 , the dynamics of the low - dimensional system are investigated .",
    "a summary and discussion are given in sec.5 .",
    "let @xmath1 be a 1-dimensional map , @xmath2 .",
    "we define a map from the 1-dimensional map @xmath1 to a new 1-dimensional map as @xmath3 . here",
    "@xmath4 is an identity function and @xmath5 is a constant ( @xmath6 ) .",
    "this map is well defined if @xmath7 is satisfied .",
    "we define a fd system employing such @xmath1 and @xmath8 as follows : @xmath9 this equation determines the evolution of the function @xmath10 .",
    "if the initial function @xmath11 satisfies @xmath12 , the temporal evolution , i.e. @xmath10 ( @xmath13 ) , is determined .",
    "the evolution equation of a function is generally an infinite - dimensional dynamical system . among the class of systems consisting of such function dynamics",
    ", the existence of the ` self - referential ' term @xmath14 is the distinguishing feature that characterizes the system ( 1 ) .",
    "this composition term @xmath14 determines the temporal evolution of @xmath10 , and it is an operation in the functional space . with this term , the rule governing the evolution of a functional value at a particular value of its argument depends on the values of the function taken at other values of the argument .",
    "next , we give an example of the temporal evolution of @xmath10 determined by ( 1 ) . here",
    "we set the initial function @xmath15 and @xmath16 . in fig.[fig : sin_evolution ] , the graph of @xmath10 for certain values of @xmath17 are displayed .",
    "we find that after a transient , @xmath10 exhibits a temporal oscillation with a period of 2 time steps .",
    "[ cols= \" < , < \" , ]     the transitions among attractors progress as follows . at @xmath18",
    ", the instantaneous noise is added .",
    "this noise first is transmitted to @xmath19 ( see fig.[fig : entangle](c ) ) . however , the effect of the perturbation decays on @xmath20 and @xmath21 , as seen from @xmath22 plotted in ( a ) and @xmath23 plotted in ( d ) of fig.[fig : noise ] .",
    "then , @xmath24 is influenced by the noise . through @xmath25 ,",
    "the noise effect is conveyed to @xmath26 , as seen in ( b ) . for @xmath27 ,",
    "the value of @xmath26 changes and this effect is transmitted back to @xmath28 .",
    "hence , the noise effect circulates between @xmath20 and @xmath29 , and for @xmath30 , @xmath26 acts as a ` pulse generator ' . here",
    ", the amplitude of the ` pulse ' is of the same order as the noise .",
    "note that the magnitude of @xmath31 is of a different order on each @xmath32 : ( a ) @xmath33 , ( b ) @xmath34 , ( c ) @xmath35 , ( d ) @xmath36 .",
    "the noise effect is amplified on @xmath25 and is further amplified on @xmath29 . from this point of view , we can consider the added noise to be stored in @xmath26 , which leads to a transition to a new attractor .",
    "this transition is possible because the network is entangled . in this case",
    "the noise effect returns to the interval where the noise was originally added . then , deviation from the original attractor is sustained within the loop in which the noise effect is circulated .",
    "hence the function switches to a new attractor .",
    "as is already discussed in ref.@xcite , our fd can be regarded as a system that transforms input to output through @xmath37 , with an input - output relationship that changes autonomously .",
    "since such an autonomous change of an input - output relationship is commonly observed in biological cognitive systems , it is interesting to consider the possible function of an entangled network in this context .",
    "when our function @xmath10 is regarded as defining an input - output relationship , the @xmath38-@xmath39 relation in fig.[fig : noise ] represents the input dependence of the output .",
    "this relationship exhibits several thresholds with regard to change in the output behavior ; when the input is changed beyond such a threshold , the output switches to new behavior .",
    "this switch can be caused by perturbing a partial function .",
    "the pulse generated by such a perturbation can be regarded as a memory . within a network with loops ,",
    "the input ( a perturbation applied to one partial function at one time step ) is memorized through the propagation of noise within the loop .",
    "note that for this type of network , i ) the attractor can be changed as a result of this noise through a transition process and that ii ) information can be stored in some parts of the network by virtue of the circulation of the input .",
    "it would thus appear that a dynamical network of this kind has the potentiality to possess memory that depends on an input .",
    "it was shown that the dynamics of a fd system are represented by a generated map , a 1-dimensional map @xmath40 determined by the 1-dimensional map @xmath10 .",
    "the generated map acts as the rule governing the temporal evolution of @xmath37 ( i.e. , @xmath41 is determined by @xmath40 ) . for most initial conditions , after transient behavior dies away , the function @xmath10 is attracted to a piecewise - constant function . in other words",
    ", @xmath10 comes to be divided into partial functions , each of which is constant . in sec.3 , the stability of these piecewise - constant functions",
    "was discussed . in sec.4",
    "we considered the behavior resulting when we start from a piecewise - constant function , where each constant partial function is regarded as an element of a network .",
    "the dynamics of such a network , which generate a rule to drive the network itself , were also studied in sec.4 .    after defining initial functions appropriate to allow for the behavior described above in sec.4.1",
    ", the dynamics of the resulting type of network were classified in sec.4.2 . in one class ,",
    "the dynamics of the partial functions are determined hierarchically .",
    "these partial functions are unidirectionally ordered in a tree , in which each partial function in an upper level is driven by partial functions by lower levels . in this case , the effect of a perturbation applied to a partial function is transmitted unidirectionally through the partial functions .    in sec.4.3 , we studied another class of network dynamics , that in which there is ` entanglement ' , in the sense that dynamics of some partial functions are influenced by other partial functions .",
    "the structure of such entanglement , i.e. , the mutual influence of different partial functions on the rules for their dynamics , was analyzed . in secs.4.3.1 and 4.3.2 ,",
    "this entanglement was studied by considering particular sets of initial conditions .",
    "it was shown that a perturbation ( representing an input to one partial function ) circulates through a loop in the network , and as a result , the network dynamics can switch to a new attractor .",
    "the ability of this network to model a memory was discussed .    in conclusion , we have found that the fd system we have studied can form a hierarchically entangled dynamical network .",
    "we believe that such a system may be useful in modeling the spontaneous emergence of rules governing dynamics in biological system .",
    "in general , a network consists of * elements * and directed * edges * between * elements*. * information * is transmitted through directed edges , and the internal state of an element ( i.e. , the value of the partial function ) changes accordingly .",
    "the terminal of a given directed edge depends on the dynamics of this internal state .      *",
    "an * element * in the network consists of a connected subinterval on which the value of the function @xmath37 is constant . according to the results of our simulations",
    ", it appears that the formation of such constant subintervals is a general characteristic of fd systems , as discussed in sec.3 . *",
    "directed * edge*s are determined by the relations among the intervals induced by @xmath10 . specifically , if @xmath42 is satisfied , there is a directed edge from @xmath43 to @xmath44 , represented as @xmath45 in the graph of a network . *",
    "the * internal state of the element * @xmath44 is defined as the value @xmath46 . *",
    "the transmitted * information * from @xmath43 to @xmath44 is the value @xmath47 .",
    "the shape of a network changes through the change of its directed edges .",
    "for example ,",
    "the edge @xmath45 changes to @xmath48 , if @xmath49",
    ". with this representation , a dynamical network for a fd system can be formulated .",
    "+ the advantage of a fd model lies in the simultaneous formation of elements and edges . through the fd ,",
    "elements and edges emerge from an infinite - dimensional functional space . in most studies of dynamical networks , a fixed set of elements along with rules that govern the evolution of the edges are prescribed",
    ". however , many biological ( including cognitive and social ) systems have the ability to generate rules governing their dynamics spontaneously . as a simple example , consider signal transduction in a cell . there , signal molecules change the state of a cell , and play a role in determining the dynamics . however , the results governing this function are not necessarily prescribed by chemical reaction rules , but are determined by the state of the cell , which is realized through the reaction network dynamics .",
    "it is true that investigation to elucidate the microscopic dynamics involving signal molecules is important to understand such context - dependent functions of signal molecules .",
    "however , it is also necessary to adopt an approach from a higher , macroscopic level , which can be represented by a functional system .",
    "of course , the same can be said about a cognitive systems consisting of neurons .",
    "the fd approach is based on self - referential structure represented by @xmath14 , which was introduced to understand how elements and rules are generated simultaneously and interdependently .",
    "the fixed point @xmath50 represents a self - consistent condition in which operation by the function does not change the function itself .",
    "this fixed point determines intervals on which the function is constant .",
    "these intervals act as the basic elements in the network , and drive other intervals .",
    "the constant intervals formed due to fixed points provide rules governing the dynamics of the other intervals .",
    "the network thus generated can possess hierarchy and entanglement .",
    "hierarchy in a network is commonly observed in biological ( as well as cognitive and social ) systems . in some cases ,",
    "such hierarchy is simple , and the network possesses a tree structure . in some other cases ,",
    "the hierarchy is not simple , and the network is entangled ; i.e. , there exists mutual dependence of the dynamics of elements .",
    "in such a case , the network itself changes spontaneously .",
    "such network dynamics can also be changed with inputs .",
    "features of this kind that exist in real biological networks were also shown to exist in our fd system in this paper .",
    "considering the simplicity of our model ( 1 ) , the results found here give reason to believe that these features exist quite generally in network systems that maintain themselves through temporal evolution .",
    "it is therefore important to study how concepts formulated with regard to fd can be applied to real biological network dynamics .",
    "the limit function investigated here starts from a piecewise constant function @xmath11 .",
    "however , in a more general investigation , we also need to consider the case in which such initial functions are continuous . with a continuous @xmath11",
    ", the limit function can consist of an infinite number of constant partial functions .",
    "we believe that infinite hierarchy and infinite entanglement can be generated in this case .",
    "characterization of the dynamics in a system with such infinite hierarchy is a future problem .",
    "the stability of a higher - order structure , such as hierarchy and entanglement in a network , is an important problem in fd .",
    "though the theorem stated in sec.3 is valid only for an @xmath17-independent partial function ( although we hope to generalize it in future ) , we believe that attractors in a fd system are stable , because the slope of the generated map is @xmath51 .    by adding noise ( i.e. , an input to one or more partial functions ) with a finite magnitude , a transition between attractors can occur .",
    "consider a perturbation applied to the system by changing the value of @xmath52 . as a result ,",
    "any partial function @xmath53 that satisfies @xmath54 is influenced by this change in @xmath52 . in this manner ,",
    "applied noise is transmitted along edges in the network . during this transmission , the noise 1 )",
    "will decrease due to the contracting nature of the generated map @xmath40 , but 2 ) it may cause a transition to a new attractor for each @xmath52 when the noise causes @xmath53 to switch to a new branch in the generated map .",
    "( note that the generated map is discontinuous . )",
    "if a transition to a new attractors does not occur for any @xmath17 , the influence of the noise eventually disappears , due to the contraction imparted by the generated map .",
    "+ considering the successive addition of inputs ( noise ) , one can study how the inputs are ` memorized ' in the network .",
    "note , however , that there is a difficulty involved with the continuous addition of noise in our model .",
    "also , when noise is added to fixed points , the network structure may be completely destroyed .-",
    "independent function around the fixed point changes to a new @xmath17independent function around a new fixed point , and the structure of the network is preserved .",
    "] indeed , in a fd system with noise added continuously in time , if the magnitude of this noise is sufficiently large , the function becomes constant over all intervals .",
    "one possible way to avoid this problem is to consider a fd on a torus ( @xmath55 ) , i.e. , a map on a circle . in this case",
    "there exists a function that has no fixed points .",
    "the study of fd on a circle is an interesting extension to be considered in the future .",
    "the authors acknowledge y. takahashi and t. namiki for their discussion and mathematical suggestions .",
    "they thank t. ikegami and s. sasa for stimulating discussions .",
    "this work is partially supported by grants - in - aid for scientific research from the ministry of education , science and culture of japan ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> as a first step toward realizing a dynamical system that evolves while spontaneously determining its own rule for time evolution , function dynamics ( fd ) is analyzed . </S>",
    "<S> fd consists of a functional equation with a self - referential term , given as a dynamical system of a 1-dimensional map . through the time evolution of this system , </S>",
    "<S> a dynamical graph ( a network ) emerges . </S>",
    "<S> this graph has three interesting properties : i ) vertices appear as stable elements , ii ) the terminals of directed edges change in time , and iii ) some vertices determine the dynamics of edges , and edges determine the stability of the vertices , complementarily . </S>",
    "<S> two aspects of fd are studied , the generation of a graph ( network ) structure and the dynamics of this graph ( network ) in the system . + * keywords : * function dynamics ; iterated map ; self - reference ; dynamical network </S>"
  ]
}