{
  "article_text": [
    "the consideration of few - quark systems has become a very exciting topic in few - body physics . on the one hand it represents a big challenge for modern few - body methods to solve few - quark problems , since the corresponding bound and continuum states have to be solved in a consistent relativistic framework .",
    "thus , in order to treat hadron phenomena on a microscopic level the formalism of calculation has to be essentially relativistic . on the other hand",
    "the issues of quark dynamics are very important . in principle",
    ", the microscopic description of hadronic bound states and reactions amounts to solving quantum chromodynamics ( qcd ) at low energies .",
    "evidently , this is not strictly possible nowadays , and one must resort to effective theories and/or models . for any of such approaches , however , it is required to implement the essential properties of low - energy qcd , which are still not known in a satisfactory manner . in working with few - quark problems it is an intriguing task to find out the forces binding the constituents of hadrons and finally governing their behaviours .",
    "evidently it is of eminent interest from many aspects of nuclear and subnuclear physics to be able to describe and to understand the properties ( and reactions ) of hadrons in a microscopic manner on the basis of the fundamental theory of strong ( and also electroweak ) interaction .",
    "a very powerful tool for low- and intermediate - energy hadron physics consists in employing constituent quark models ( cqms ) .",
    "they have already witnessed a long and reasonably successful development . starting out from the naive nonrelativistic quark model of hadrons in the 60 s one",
    "has constantly improved the quark - quark dynamics and one has learned how to apply a relativistic formalism . at present",
    "we have several refined cqms available , which at least prove the approach to be promising .",
    "of course , they advocate various types of dynamics and use different calculational methods , what leads to partly dissimilar results .",
    "however , this just makes up the flavour of present research in this field . by considering more and more hadron processes within the concept of cqms one",
    "will gradually find out which is the most promising variant of the existing models .    in hadronic physics one would like to have an effective theory / model of qcd that is able to deal with all phenomena in a certain energy domain ( at low and intermediate energies , say ) .",
    "it is not sufficient to consider just a limited aspect , for instance , only spectroscopy .",
    "this is especially true also for cqms .",
    "therefore , any realistic cqm should be subject to as many tests as possible .",
    "a model that has proven to be successful in describing the hadron spectra ( bound state and resonance energies ) should then be applied to hadronic reactions in order to check its global usability ( notably also the wave function behaviour ) .    in this context , we shall here mainly discuss results of the relativistic cqm whose dynamics is based on goldstone - boson exchange ( gbe ) vis -  - vis corresponding results from other types of relativistic cqms . in particular , we shall consider the gbe cqm by the graz group @xcite and compare its results to the ones by a typical representative of one - gluon - exchange ( oge ) cqms , namely the relativistic variant of the bhaduri - cohler - nogami ( bcn ) cqm @xcite as parametrized in ref .",
    "@xcite , and by the cqm relying on instanton - induced ( ii ) forces @xcite .",
    "we shall address the aspects of light and strange baryon spectroscopy , nucleon electroweak structure , electric radii and magnetic moments of octet and decuplet baryon ground states , and pionic decays of nucleon and @xmath0 resonances .",
    "the baryon spectra as provided by cqms have been discussed from many viewpoints , especially also because of the big interest from the experimental side .",
    "while the description was rather qualitative in the early stages of cqms , it is clear that considerable improvements have been achieved in the past years .",
    "finally one has met the demand of describing all the light- and strange baryon spectra within one and the same framework . due to the very nature of these spectra",
    "it is immediately evident that one needs flavor - dependent forces . as a result , the oge cqm being flavor - independent encounters difficulties in describing simultaneously the @xmath1 and @xmath2 spectra , in addition to the notorious shortcomings in the level orderings of positive- and negative - parity states in the @xmath1 ( and tentatively @xmath0 ) spectrum .",
    "the reasons have already been discussed in much detail in the literature ( see , e.g. , ref .",
    "@xcite ) . here",
    "we only recall the typical behaviour through a comparison of the oge , ii , and gbe cqms for the @xmath1 and @xmath2 spectra in figs . 1 and 2 ( the complete spectra can be found in the original refs .",
    "@xcite , @xcite , and @xcite , respectively ) .",
    "this comparison actually shows the ( most striking ) current problems still prevailing in the various types of cqms .",
    "notably , all of them encounter severe shortcomings in the @xmath2 spectrum , especially with regard to the @xmath2(1405 ) , the first excitation above the ground state .",
    "furthermore the oge and the ii cqms are left with the wrong level orderings of the first positive- and negative - parity excitations above the nucleon ground state .",
    "only the gbe cqm can reproduce both the @xmath3(1440 ) @xmath4 and the @xmath3(1535 ) @xmath5 states in the right places , in accordance with experiment . except for the open problem with @xmath2(1405 ) , it thus represents the only cqm that is able to describe in a unified framework all light and strange baryon spectra in reasonable agreement with experiment .    with regard to the problem of the correct level ordering of positive- and negative - parity states the following remark is in order .",
    "it has repeatedly been claimed above all by valcarce et al . that a proper description , especially of the @xmath1 and @xmath0 spectra , can also be obtained within a hybrid ( i.e. one - gluon exchange plus meson exchange ) cqm keeping a predominant contribution from the oge interaction . in the first paper of the salamanca - valencia group @xcite , where such a claim was originally made , they used a variant of their cqm with a value @xmath6 of the effective quark - gluon coupling and a cut - off parameter @xmath7 fm in the oge part of the hyperfine interaction . due to a nonconverged variational calculation of the nucleon spectrum they obtained a wrong level structure , with the positive - parity @xmath8 resonance",
    "practically degenerate with the negative - parity @xmath9 state . upon recalculating this model in a converged variational calculation and also in a rigorous faddeev approach ,",
    "the graz group established the right @xmath1 and @xmath0 spectra and found them in disagreement with the original paper @xcite and thus also at variance with phenomenology @xcite .",
    "the problem was reiterated in ref .",
    "@xcite , where also some technical details about treating the @xmath10-function smearing of the color - magnetic interaction in three - quark calculations were elucidated .",
    "still , in ref .",
    "@xcite a similar claim as before was made by the salamanca - valencia group , then with a different parametrization of their cqm , namely with the parameters @xmath11 and @xmath12 fm in the oge part . as it turned out in another recalculation by the graz group , the results reported in ref .",
    "@xcite were again not converged .",
    "similar errors were repeated in a subsequent paper by garcilazo et al .",
    "@xcite . there , some further modified versions of the salamanca - valencia cqm were considered reporting results for the @xmath1 and @xmath0 spectra calculated in the framework of faddeev equations .",
    "one claimed a reasonable reproduction of the ground - state and resonance levels , in particular of the roper @xmath8 state , while maintaining a considerable contribution from the oge part in the @xmath13-@xmath13 hyperfine interaction . upon checking these results",
    "the graz group found another time that they were not satisfactorily accurate .",
    "this was established by applying on the one hand the stochastic variational method ( svm ) @xcite and on the other hand a modified type of faddeev approach as in ref .",
    "@xcite ; the latter was especially designed to treat infinitely rising confining potentials along with faddeev equations and leads to improved convergence .",
    "only in another subsequent paper @xcite garcilazo et al . produced practically correct @xmath1 and @xmath0 spectra by including into their faddeev calculation enough angular momentum states .",
    "as is clearly seen from the figures given in that work , a proper ordering of the positive- and negative - parity levels is not achieved with neither one of the different versions of the salamanca - valencia hybrid cqm . on the contrary",
    ", the negative - parity @xmath9 falls clearly below the positive - parity @xmath8 roper resonance , leaving the @xmath1 spectrum ( and in addition also the @xmath0 spectrum ) at variance with experiment .",
    "now , there has also been a contribution to this conference by a. valcarce .",
    "therein it is stated again that ` a quite reasonable description of the baryon spectrum ' is obtained with the salamanca - valencia cqm . by inspecting fig .",
    "5 of this contribution @xcite ( which shows basically correct results but due to missing higher states rather incomplete excitation spectra ) one can not find this claim confirmed by any means .",
    "the negative - parity @xmath5 resonances in both the @xmath1 and @xmath0 spectra lie far below the experimental values and notably also below the respective first positive - parity excitations above the ground states .",
    "in addition , the spectrum shown in fig . 5 of ref .",
    "@xcite does not belong to the parameter set quoted in table 1 of the same paper .",
    "rather it belongs to the parameter set given in table 3 of ref .",
    "@xcite , which produces even inferior spectra with regard to the relative positions of positive- and negative - parity excitations ( cf . figs . 1 and 2 in ref .",
    "@xcite ) ; in addition the first @xmath14 and @xmath15 @xmath3 states ( not shown neither in ref .",
    "@xcite nor by valcarce in the contribution to this conference ) both lie more than 100 mev below the experimental levels !",
    "thus the argumentation in valcarce s contribution is badly misleading in connection with the performance of the salamanca - valencia cqm in baryon spectroscopy .",
    "the truth is that correct @xmath1 and @xmath0 spectra have so far not been achieved in neither one of the presented parametrizations of this particular cqm . in principle , within a pure oge cqm or a hybrid model that relies on a predominant contribution from oge in the hyperfine interaction it is not possible to describe specifically the first positive- and negative - parity excitations in the @xmath1 and @xmath0 spectra , the @xmath1-@xmath0 splitting , and the @xmath2 spectrum correctly at the same time .",
    "this fact can be readily derived from the spin - isospin symmetry of the color - magnetic interaction @xcite .",
    "obviously a correct quantitative description of all light and strange baryon spectra in a unified relativistic framework is of importance for applications of the cqm wave functions in dynamical processes involving ground states and resonances .",
    "certain constraints are , of course , imposed by the spectra on the spin - flavor symmetry of the @xmath13-@xmath13 interaction , and the various cqms may not yet be complete in these respects . however , one must also bear in mind that the description of resonances in terms of \\{@xmath16 } bound states ( without explicit couplings to decay channels ) might be totally inadequate ( see sec . 4 below ) .",
    "the particular relativistic cqms considered in the previous section have already been tested for nucleon form factors and , partly , also for electric radii and magnetic moments of the light and strange baryon ground states @xcite . for the cases of the oge and gbe cqms",
    "one obtained manifestly covariant results along the point - form spectator approximation ( pfsa ) whereas the predictions of the ii cqm were obtained also with one - body currents but in a bethe - salpeter approach @xcite . in fig .",
    "3 we present a comparison of the results for the elastic proton and neutron electroweak form factors .",
    "the electric radii and magnetic moments of the nucleons , and likewise of all other measured octet and decuplet ground states , are quoted in tables 1 and 2 .",
    "[ tab1 ]    .predictions for electric radii of the proton , neutron , and the @xmath17 baryon as obtained in pfsa from the gbe cqm  @xcite in comparison to the case with the confinement potential only and results from the bcn oge cqm  @xcite . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     following the studies of nucleon form factors addressed in the previous section , the graz group has recently performed calculations of ( pionic ) decay widths of @xmath1 and @xmath0 resonances with cqms in relativistic point - form quantum mechanics .",
    "a first report thereof was given in ref .",
    "@xcite . in table 3",
    "we provide a comparison of some results for pionic decay widths of @xmath1 and @xmath0 resonances from the gbe and bcn oge cqms .",
    "so far one has only employed a decay operator according to a relativistic generalization of the elementary emission model ( eem ) , i.e. a one - body operator .",
    "relativistic boost effects , however , have been included exactly in the calculation of matrix elements . by comparison to a standard nonrelativistic calculation one",
    "has again found that relativistic effects are of considerable importance , with their magnitudes exceeding by far the influences of dynamical ingredients in the wave functions . still , at this instance",
    ", one has not yet arrived at a satisfactory explanation of the decay widths in accordance with existing experimental data . here ,",
    "the problems appear much more intricate than anticipated . due to the involvement of resonance wave functions in evaluating the transition matrix elements one might tentatively need a more elaborate description of the resonance states with finite rather than zero widths .",
    "this means that one should include the couplings to the decay channels in the resonance wave functions . in a microscopic approach ,",
    "ideally , one should provide additional configurations beyond three - quark states explicitly or at least take care of their roles in an effective description .",
    "similarly one must consider further refinements in the decay operator and/or alternative mechanisms for the meson emission .",
    "from the evidences highlighted above , a number of important conclusions can be drawn on the performance and adequacy of cqms ( as effective models of qcd for low - energy hadronic physics ) .",
    "these insights will be important for the future development of the cqm approach and , more generally , for the physics of low- and intermediate - energy hadron phenomena .",
    "regarding spectroscopy a further improvement of cqms is most desirable .",
    "certainly , with the gbe cqm ( and to a lesser quality also with the ii cqm ) a description of all light and strange baryons is at hand within a single model .",
    "it would be satisfying to extend the existing models in order to reach an even more comprehensive unified framework for the treatment of baryons ( including also the heavy flavors ) and mesons . from the applications considered here , one might be content with the behaviour of ground states ( as \\{@xmath16 } bound states ) but the treatment of resonances must certainly be made more realistic . in this respect",
    "it is also not clear how far the concept of cqms can be pushed up in excitation energy , even under the inclusion of further , say mesonic , degrees of freedom .",
    "the assumption of the constituent quark itself , as a quasiparticle of low - energy qcd , could soon break down in higher excitations of hadrons , namely , when chiral symmetry gets restored .    from dealing with hadron reactions in cqms ( in our case lepton scattering on nucleons and strong decays of baryon resonances )",
    "it has become fairly evident that a relativistic formulation has to be employed . in this light",
    ", any nonrelativistic treatment must be considered as inadequate from the very beginning .",
    "still , it appears viable to work with a finite number of degrees of freedom instead of a genuine field - theoretic framework .",
    "this paves the way for approaches following poincar - invariant quantum mechanics .",
    "while being well founded axiomatically , it seems they also provide a proper tool for fulfilling lorentz covariance and allow at the same time the application of refined few - body techniques to solve a variety of few - quark problems without having to resort to drastic approximations . over the past decades few - body physics",
    "has been especially successful in accurate descriptions of nuclear phenomena . for that purpose a nonrelativistic quantum theory was mostly sufficient . in subnuclear physics , when dealing with a microscopic description of hadrons as few - quark systems , this is no longer the case , and we have to employ relativistic approaches .",
    "their solution usually requires much more technical efforts , and it represents a challenge to apply them for all kind of hadron phenomena .",
    "we may well be confident that the corresponding studies will reward us with new exciting flavours in the traditional field of few - body physics .",
    "i want to express my sincere gratitude to teresa pea and her team for organizing the 2002 lisbon workshop and for dedicating it to peter sauer .",
    "indeed , it is justified to acknowledge peter s contributions to few - body physics over the years by a topical workshop .",
    "i have been knowing him since the early 70 s and i have always appreciated him as a critical colleague and an enthusiastic as well as helpful collaborator .",
    "the scientific links between hanover and graz have produced a number of essential results and also several friendly personal relationships .",
    "i feel uncomfortable when thinking about a future where all this could be lost due to the retirement of peter and a possible disruption of the hanover few - body - physics group .",
    "the results discussed in this work have mostly originated from combined efforts of the few - body physics group in graz , partly in collaboration with the pavia group ( sigfrido boffi and marco radici ) and with bill klink from the university of iowa .",
    "it is a pleasure to acknowledge this fruitful collaboration and here above all the individual contributions by robert wagenbrunn , katharina berger , and thomas melde .",
    "this work was supported by the austrian science fund , project no .",
    "p14806-tph .",
    "wagenbrunn , r.f . ,",
    "boffi , s. , klink , w. , plessas , w. , and radici , m. : phys .",
    "b511 * , 33 ( 2001 ) ; glozman , l.ya . ,",
    "radici , m. , wagenbrunn , r.f . ,",
    "boffi , s. , klink , w. , and plessas , w. : ibid . *",
    "b516 * , 183 ( 2001 ) ; boffi , s. , glozman , l.ya . ,",
    "klink , w. , plessas , w. , radici , m. , and wagenbrunn , r.f .",
    "j. * a14 * , 17 ( 2002 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we discuss some recent developments in the description of baryons as three - quark systems within relativistic constituent quark models . </S>",
    "<S> in particular we address the issues of excitation spectra , electroweak structure , and mesonic resonance decays . </S>",
    "<S> the necessities of implementing simultaneously the symmetries of low - energy quantum chromodynamics and of relativistic invariance are emphasized . </S>"
  ]
}