{
  "article_text": [
    "the radiation environment in deep space or on the moon can be very harsh ( macfarlane et al . , 1991 ) . without the earth",
    "s atmosphere and magnetic field to protect them , astronauts will be directly exposed to high - energy galactic cosmic rays ( gcr ) , to intense fluxes of protons and other particles from solar flares , and to radiation from on - board power plants or nuclear propulsion systems .",
    "such radiation is also very dangerous to computers and electronics on spacecraft , as it may cause enough single - event upsets to lead to device failure .",
    "the economic penalties of additional mass to provide shielding may be huge . to minimize this expense ,",
    "we need to be able to reliably calculate the amount of shielding required . performing this task",
    "requires nuclear data for reactions induced by different projectiles , on different targets , for a large range of incident energies .",
    "similarly , addressing different astrophysical problems , such as investigation the origin and propagation of cosmic rays ( cr ) and the nuclide abundances in the solar system and in cr , again requires a large amount of different nuclear reaction data .",
    "experiments to obtain such data are costly , there is a limited number of facilities available to make such measurements , and some reactions of interest can not yet be measured at current accelerators . therefore reliable models and codes are required to provide the necessary estimates .    during recent years at the los alamos national laboratory",
    ", we have developed an improved version of the cascade - exciton model ( cem ) , contained in the code cem2k , to describe nucleon - induced reactions at incident energies up to 5 gev ( mashnik and sierk , 2001 and 2002 ) and the los alamos version of the quark - gluon string model , realized in the high - energy code laqgsm ( gudima et al . , 2001 ) , able to describe both particle- and nucleus - induced reactions at energies up to 1000 gev / nucleon .",
    "both codes have been tested against most of the available data and compared with predictions of other modern codes ( mashnik and sierk , 2001 and 2002 ; mashnik et al .",
    ", 2002a-2002d ; titarenko et al . , 2002 ) .",
    "our comparisons have shown that both codes describe a large variety of spallation , fission , and fragmentation reactions quite reliably and have one of the best predictive powers compared with other available monte - carlo codes . in the present paper ,",
    "we outline our models and show several typical results that testify that both cem2k and laqgsm are reliable event - generators which can be used in many different applications . as an illustration of application of our evaluated cross sections in astrophysics ,",
    "we show an estimate of the size of the cr halo obtained using the cr propagation code galprop ( strong and moskalenko , 1998 ; moskalenko et al . , 2002 ) .",
    "a detailed description of the initial version of the cem may be found in gudima et al .",
    "( 1983 ) , therefore we outline here only its basic assumptions .",
    "the cem assumes that reactions occur in three stages .",
    "the first stage is the intranuclear cascade ( inc ) in which primary particles can be re - scattered and produce secondary particles several times prior to absorption by or escape from the nucleus .",
    "the excited residual nucleus remaining after the cascade determines the particle - hole configuration that is the starting point for the preequilibrium stage of the reaction .",
    "the subsequent relaxation of the nuclear excitation is treated in terms of an improved modified exciton model ( mem ) of preequilibrium decay followed by the equilibrium evaporative final stage of the reaction .",
    "generally , all three stages contribute to experimentally measured outcomes .",
    "the improved cascade - exciton model in the code cem2k differs from the older cem95 version by incorporating new approximations for the elementary cross sections used in the cascade , using more precise values for nuclear masses and pairing energies , employing a corrected systematics for the level - density parameters , improving the approximation for the pion  binding energy \" , @xmath0 , adjusting the cross sections for pion absorption on quasi - deuteron pairs inside a nucleus , considering the effects of refractions and reflections from the nuclear potential on cascade particles , allowing for nuclear transparency of pions , including the pauli principle in the preequilibrium calculation , and improving the calculation of the fission widths .",
    "implementation of significant refinements and improvements in the algorithms of many subroutines led to a decrease of the computing time by up to a factor of 6 for heavy nuclei , which is very important when performing simulations with transport codes .",
    "essentially , cem2k has a longer cascade stage , less preequilibrium emission , and a longer evaporation stage with a higher excitation energy , as compared to its precursors cem97 and cem95 . besides the changes to cem97 and cem95 mentioned above",
    ", we also made a number of other improvements and refinements , such as : ( i ) imposing momentum - energy conservation for each simulated event ( the monte carlo algorithm previously used in cem provides momentum - energy conservation only statistically , on the average , but not exactly for the cascade stage of each event ) , ( ii ) using real binding energies for nucleons at the cascade stage instead of the approximation of a constant separation energy of 7 mev used in previous versions of the cem , ( iii ) using reduced masses of particles in the calculation of their emission widths instead of using the approximation of no recoil used previously , and ( iv ) a better approximation of the total reaction cross sections . on the whole , this set of improvements led to a much better description of particle spectra and yields of residual nuclei and a better agreement with available data for a variety of reactions .",
    "details , examples , and further references may be found in mashnik and sierk ( 2001 and 2002 ) and in titarenko et al .",
    "( 2002 ) .",
    "the los alamos version of the quark - gluon string model ( laqgsm ) by gudima et al . , ( 2001 ) is a next - generation of the quark - gluon string model ( qgsm ) by amelin et al .",
    "( 1990 , and references therein ) and is intended to describe both particle- and nucleus - induced reactions at energies up to about 1 tev / nucleon .",
    "the core of the qgsm is built on a time - dependent version of the intranuclear cascade model developed at dubna , often referred in the literature simply as the dubna intranuclear cascade model ( dcm ) ( see toneev and gudima , 1983 and references therein ) .",
    "the dcm models interactions of fast cascade particles (  participants \" ) with nucleon spectators of both the target and projectile nuclei and includes interactions of two participants ( cascade particles ) as well .",
    "it uses experimental cross sections ( or those calculated by the quark - gluon string model for energies above 4.5 gev / nucleon ) for these elementary interactions to simulate angular and energy distributions of cascade particles , also considering the pauli exclusion principle .",
    "when the cascade stage of a reaction is completed , qgsm uses the coalescence model described in toneev and gudima ( 1983 ) to  create \" high - energy d , t , @xmath1he , and @xmath2he by final state interactions among emitted cascade nucleons , already outside of the colliding nuclei . after calculating the coalescence stage of a reaction , qgsm moves to the description of the last slow stages of the interaction , namely to preequilibrium decay and evaporation , with a possible competition of fission using the standard version of the cem by gudima et al . , ( 1983 ) .",
    "but if the residual nuclei have atomic numbers with @xmath3 , qgsm uses the fermi break - up model to calculate their further disintegration instead of using the preequilibrium and evaporation models .",
    "laqgsm differs from qgsm by replacing the preequilibrium and evaporation parts of qgsm described according to the standard cem ( gudima et al . , 1983 ) with the new physics from cem2k ( mashnik and sierk , 2001 and 2002 ) and",
    "has a number of improvements and refinements in the cascade and fermi break - up models ( in the current version of laqgsm , we use the fermi break - up model only for @xmath4 ) . a detailed description of laqgsm and further references may be found in gudima et al .",
    "( 2001 ) .    originally , both cem2k and laqgsm were not able to describe fission reactions and production of light fragments heavier than @xmath2he , as they had neither a high - energy - fission nor a fragmentation model .",
    "recently , we addressed these problems ( mashnik et al",
    ". , 2002a and 2002c ) by further improving our codes and by merging them with the generalized evaporation model code gem2 developed by furihata ( 2000 and 2001 ) .",
    "we have benchmarked our codes on all reactions measured recently at gsi ( darmstadt , germany ) and on many other different reactions at lower and higher energies measured earlier at other laboratories .",
    "we found that cem2k and laqgsm allow us to describe quite well a large variety of spallation , fission and fragmentation reactions at energies from 10 mev to 800 gev , without any free fitting parameters , though we still have to solve a number of problems for a better description of nuclides produced near the intersection of the spallation and fission regions .",
    "our current versions of cem2k and laqgsm were incorporated recently into the mars ( mokhov , 1995 ) and lahet ( prael and lichtenstein , 1989 ) transport codes and are currently being incorporated into mcnpx ( waters , 1999 )",
    ". this will allow others to use our codes as event - generators in these transport codes to simulate reactions with targets of practically arbitrary geometry and nuclide composition .",
    "figure 1 shows examples of calculated by cem2k and laqgsm neutron spectra from interactions of protons with @xmath5pb at 0.8 gev , while figure 2 gives examples of p , d , t , @xmath1he , and @xmath2he spectra from p ( 61 mev ) + fe compared with experimental data by ishibashi et al .",
    "( 1997 ) and bertrand and peelle ( 1973 ) .",
    "we note that all reactions shown in figures 1 and 2 , and in all the following figures of this paper , were calculated within a single approach , without fitting any parameters of cem2k or laqgsm .",
    "we see that both cem2k and laqgsm describe well spectra of secondary neutrons and protons .",
    "similar results are obtained for other targets and energies of incident protons , as well as for reactions induced by neutrons , pions , and photons .",
    "spectra of @xmath2he are also described by our codes quite well , while spectra of d , t , and @xmath1he are reproduced reasonably , but not as well as those of nucleons and @xmath2he .",
    "this is partially due to the fact that we do not fit here the probability @xmath6 for @xmath7 excited nucleons ( excitons ) to condense into a complex particle which can be emitted during the preequilibrium stage of a reaction to get the best agreement with the data , as is often done in the literature by other authors ( see details in gudima et al . , 1983 and mashnik et al . , 2002c",
    ") . in the present version of our models",
    "we do not take into account direct production of complex particles like pick - up and knock - out , and this leads to some underestimation of emission of high - energy complex particles , and to under - prediction of the high - energy tails of their spectra seen in figure 2 .",
    "we note that some of the evaporation models used often in the literature , like the gsi evaporation model by schmidt ( gaimard and schmidt , 1991 ; junghans et al . , 1998 ) , which is used in conjunction with the liege inc by cugnon ( boudard et al . ,",
    "2002 ) in the code incl , do not consider preequilibrium particle emission ; they only evaporate n , p , and @xmath2he , and do not produce d , t , and @xmath1he at all .",
    "recently , nakamura s group measured neutron double - differential cross sections from many reactions induced by light and medium nuclei on targets from @xmath8c to @xmath5pb , at several incident energies from 95 to 600 mev / nucleon ( iwata et al . , 2001 and references therein ) .",
    "we have calculated all these cross sections using laqgsm . as an example ,",
    "our results for interactions of 600 mev / nucleon @xmath9ne with cu are compared in figure 3 with experimental data and calculations with the qmd ( aichelin , 1991 ) and hic ( bertini et al . , 1974 ) models kindly provided to us by nakamura s group .",
    "we see that laqgsm describes these data quite well and agrees with the measurements much better than do qmd and hic .",
    "similar results are obtained for all the other reactions measured by this group .",
    "recently , for the proton radiography ( prad ) project , we have performed ( mashnik et al . , 2002b ) a benchmark of qgsm ( and laqgsm ) , mars , and lahet3 ( prael , 2001 ) against all measured double - differential cross sections of proton - nucleus reactions at energies around 50 gev for all targets for which we were able to find experimental data .",
    "we calculated , compared with experimental data , and analyzed more than 500 spectra of p , d , t , @xmath1he , @xmath2he , @xmath10 , @xmath11 , @xmath12 , @xmath13 , and @xmath14 emitted from targets from @xmath15be to @xmath5pb at angles from 0 to 159 deg at incident proton energies from 30 to 70 gev .",
    "this study has shown that laqgsm describes well most of the measured spectra .",
    "a detailed and comprehensive report on this work is now in preparation , while figure 4 shows just one example , namely spectra of deuterons emitted at 9.17 deg from p ( 70 gev ) + @xmath5pb .",
    "we see that deuterons with momentum of up to about 15 gev / c are emitted and measured in this particular reaction .",
    "utilizing the coalescence mechanism for complex particle emission , laqgsm is able to describe high - energy deuteron production , and agrees well with the measurement .",
    "lahet3 does not consider the coalescence of complex particles and therefore describes emission of only evaporative and preequilibrium deuterons with momenta not higher than 1 gev / c .",
    "even though the cross section for emission of deuterons with momentum of @xmath16 gev / c is more than six orders of magnitude lower than for evaporation of low energy deuterons , such high energy deuterons and other complex particles may be extremely dangerous to people and equipment in space .",
    "therefore , we need to be able to calculate such reactions as well as possible , to accurately estimate the necessary shielding .    recently at gsi in darmstadt , germany , a large amount of measurements have been performed using inverse kinematics for interactions of @xmath17fe , @xmath5pb and @xmath18u at 1 gev / nucleon and @xmath19au at 800 mev / nucleon with liquid @xmath20h .",
    "these measurements provide a very rich set of cross sections for production of practically all possible isotopes from such reactions in a  pure \" form , _",
    "i.e. _ , individual cross sections from a specific given bombarding isotope ( or target isotope , when considering reactions in the usual kinematics , p + a )",
    ". such cross sections are much easier to compare to models than the  camouflaged \" data from @xmath21-spectrometry measurements .",
    "these are often obtained only for a natural composition of isotopes in a target and are mainly for cumulative production , where measured cross sections contain contributions not only from the direct production of a given isotope , but also from all its decay - chain precursors . in addition , many reactions where a beam of light , medium , or heavy ions with energy near to or below 1 gev / nucleon interact with different nuclei , from the lightest , d , to the heaviest , @xmath5pb were measured recently at gsi .",
    "references on these measurements and many tabulated experimental cross sections may be found on the web page of prof .",
    "schmidt ( 2002 ) . we have analyzed with cem2k and laqgsm all measurements done at gsi",
    "we are acquainted of , both for proton - nucleus and nucleus - nucleus interactions .",
    "some examples of our cem2k results compared with the gsi data and calculations by other current models for proton - nucleus reactions may be found in mashnik and sierk ( 2001 and 2002 ) , mashnik et al .",
    "( 2002a , 2002c , and 2002d ) , and titarenko et al .",
    "figure 5 shows an example of laqgsm results for the reaction p(1 gev ) + @xmath5pb compared with gsi data and calculations by a version of lahet using the incl event - generator incorporated recently into lahet .",
    "we have described incl above ; it is well known and often used in europe .",
    "one can see that laqgsm merged with gem2 ( laqgsm+gem2 ) describes quite well the gsi data and agrees better with the measurement than incl does .",
    "similar results are obtained for all other reactions measured at gsi for which we found data .        figure 6 shows an example of the highest energy we calculated so far with laqgsm , namely results by laqgsm+gem2 for the reaction p(800 gev ) + a compared with experimental data ( sihver et al . , 1992 ) and calculations with the phenomenological code yieldx ( silberberg et al . , 1998 )",
    "for the sake of brevity , we present in this figure only every third yield measured and tabulated in sihver et al .",
    "( 1992 ) , though we calculated all possible products from this reaction and get similar results for nuclides not shown here .",
    "one can see that laqgsm agrees reasonably with most of the measured yields and describes the data better than yieldx .",
    "more than a half of the measured products are described by laqgsm+gem2 with an accuracy of a factor of two or better , though we find some large discrepances for several nuclides like @xmath22hf and @xmath23rh .",
    "at last , figure 7 shows a heavy - ion induced reaction measured at gsi ( junghans , 1997 ; junghans et al . , 1998 ) , namely the yields of measured products ( black circles ) from the interaction of a 950 mev / nucleon @xmath18u beam with copper compared with our laqgsm+gem2 results ( open circles ) .",
    "one can see that laqgsm+gem2 describes most of these data with an accuracy of a factor of two or better .",
    "this section shows an example of using cross sections calculated by cem2k and laqgsm ( together with available data ) to put constraints on the galactic cr halo size . for this calculation",
    "we use a state - of - the - art cr propagation code galprop .",
    "the galprop models have been described in full detail elsewhere ( strong and moskalenko , 1998 ; moskalenko et al . , 2002 and references therein ) ; here we summarize their basic features .",
    "the code solves a transport equation on a full 3d spacial grid @xmath24 or 2d grid .",
    "the 2d models have cylindrical symmetry in the galaxy , and the basic coordinates are @xmath25 , where @xmath26 is galactocentric radius , @xmath27 is the distance from the galactic plane and @xmath28 is the total particle momentum .",
    "the propagation region is bounded by @xmath29 ( taken @xmath30 kpc ) , @xmath31 beyond which free escape is assumed . for a given @xmath32 the diffusion coefficient as a function of momentum and the reacceleration parameters",
    "is determined by the energy - dependence of the b / c ratio .",
    "the spatial diffusion coefficient is taken as @xmath33 , assuming independence of position , where @xmath34 is rigidity .",
    "for the case of reacceleration the momentum - space diffusion coefficient @xmath35 is related to the spatial coefficient .",
    "the reacceleration is parameterized by @xmath36 where @xmath37 is the alfvn speed and @xmath38 the ratio of wave energy density to magnetic field energy density .",
    "the source spectrum of nuclei is assumed to be a power law in momentum , @xmath39 for the injected particle density , if necessary with a break .",
    "the interstellar hydrogen distribution uses h  i and co surveys and information on the ionized component ; the helium fraction of the gas is taken as 0.11 by number .",
    "energy losses of nuclei by ionization and coulomb interactions are included .",
    "the distribution of cr sources is chosen to reproduce the cr distribution determined by analysis of egret gamma - ray data .",
    "the primary source abundances are adjusted to give as good agreement as possible with the observed abundances after propagation , for a given set of cross - sections .",
    "the heliospheric modulation is taken into account using the force - field approximation .",
    "the nuclear reaction network is built using the nuclear data sheets .",
    "the isotopic cross section database now includes the lanl t-16 compilation by mashnik et al .",
    "( 1999 ) consisting of several tens of thousands of experimental points .",
    "this includes a critical re - evaluation of some data and cross checks .",
    "the isotopic cross sections are calculated in galprop using the authors fits to major beryllium and boron production cross sections c , n , o @xmath40 be , b , and to other major reactions ; all other cross sections at present are calculated using the webber et al .",
    "( 1990 ) and/or silberberg et al .",
    "( 1998 ) phenomenological approximations renormalized to the data where it exists .",
    "the reaction network is solved starting at the heaviest nuclei ( i.e.  @xmath41ni ) , solving the propagation equation , computing all the resulting secondary source functions , and proceeding to the nuclei with @xmath42 .",
    "the procedure is repeated down to @xmath43 . in this way",
    "all secondary , tertiary etc .",
    "reactions are automatically accounted for . to be completely accurate for all isotopes , e.g.  for some rare cases of @xmath44-decay",
    ", the whole loop is repeated twice .        for some astrophysically important reactions we produced our own evaluations of excitation functions ( e.g. , moskalenko et al . , 2001 ) instead of using only scarce experimental data or calculations by stand - alone phenomenological systematics or nuclear reaction models .",
    "such evaluated data files ( mashnik et al . 1999 ) proved to be useful , e.g. , to study production of radioisotopes for medical and industrial applications using high power accelerators ( van riper et al . , 2001 ) . at present ,",
    "neither available experimental data nor any of the current models or phenomenological systematics can be used alone to produce a reliable evaluated activation cross section library covering a wide range of target nuclides and incident energies .",
    "instead , such an evaluated library should be created by constructing excitation functions using all available experimental data along with calculations employing some of the most reliable codes in the regions of targets and incident energies where they are most applicable .",
    "when there are reliable experimental data , they , rather than model results , should be taken as the highest priority for the evaluation .",
    "for this purpose we used all available to us experimental data from the lanl t-16 compilation ( mashnik et al .",
    ", 1999 ) together with calculations by cem2k , and for several reactions , by laqgsm and the older versions of the cem code , cem97 and cem95 .",
    "one example of such an evaluated excitation function , for the reaction @xmath45si(p , x)@xmath46al , is shown in figure 8 together with available data , cem2k results , and calculations using phenomenological systematics by webber et al .",
    "( 1990 ) and silberberg et al .  (",
    "it is seen that cem2k has some problems in a correct description of this particular cross section near the threshold ; therefore we used abundant experimental data available for this reaction to produce our evaluated excitation function at these energies .",
    "it is clear that neither the webber et al .",
    "( 1990 ) systematics nor the silberberg et al .",
    "( 1998 ) approximation describe correctly this excitation function ; using their results as an input to cr propagation codes may lead to errors in results and interpretation .    the results of the calculation of galactic propagation of radioactive isotopes @xmath46al , @xmath47cl , and @xmath48mn are shown in figure 9 , where the evaluated excitation functions used were produced as described above .",
    "the radioactive isotopes of these elements are the main astrophysical `` time clocks '' which together with stable secondary isotopes allow us to probe global galactic properties , such as the diffusion coefficient and the halo size . based on the cr data from spacecraft ( ace , ulysses , and voyager , for details",
    "see moskalenko et al . , 2001 ) we were able to restrict the halo size as @xmath49 kpc . using the semiempirical systematics yields less consistent results ( see , e.g. , strong and moskalenko , 2001 ) rizing questions about the interpretation .",
    "this result supports the conclusion that large uncertainties for the halo size obtained in previous works were mostly due to cross - section inaccuracies .    in future",
    ", we plan to develop evaluated data libraries for other astrophysical reactions of interest and to use them in future studies of galactic cr propagation .",
    "from the results presented here and in the cited references , we conclude that cem2k and laqgsm describe well ( and without any fitting parameters ) a large variety of medium- and high - energy nuclear reactions and are suitable for evaluations of nuclear data for science and applications .",
    "we continue our work on further improvements and development of both cem2k and laqgsm , but even in their present versions they are quite reliable and may be used as event - generators for astrophysical applications .",
    "we thank prof .  nakamura , drs .",
    "iwata , and iwase for sending us numerical values of their measured neutron spectra and results of calculations with qmd and hic .",
    "this study was supported by the u.  s.  department of energy and by the moldovan - u .",
    "s.  bilateral grants program , crdf project mp2 - 3025 .",
    "s.g.m .  and i.v.m",
    ".  acknowledge partial support from a nasa astrophysics theory program grant .",
    "abramov , v. v. , b. yu .",
    "baldin , a. f. buzulutskov , et al . , production of deuterons and antideuterons with large @xmath50 in @xmath51 and @xmath52 collisions at 70 gev , _ sov .",
    "_ , * 45 * , 845 - 851 , 1987 .",
    "aichelin , j. ,  quantum \" molecular dynamics  a dynamical microscopic @xmath53-body approach to investigate fragment formation and nuclear equation of state in heavy ion collisions , _ phys . rep .",
    "_ , * 202 * 233 - 360 , 1991 .",
    "amelin , n. s. , k.  k.  gudima , and v.  d.  toneev , further development of the model of quark - gluon strings for the description of high - energy collisions with a target nucleus , _ sov .  j.  nucl",
    "_ ,  * 52 * , 172 - 178 , 1990 .",
    "bertrand f. e. , and r.  w.  peelle , complete hydrogen and helium particle spectra from 30 to 60 mev proton bombardment on nuclei with a = 12 to 209 and comparison with the intranuclear cascade model , _ phys .",
    "rev .  _ * c8 * , 1045 - 1064 , 1973 .",
    "ishibashi , k. , h.  takada , t.  nakomoto , et al .",
    ", measurement of neutron - production double - differential cross sections for nuclear spallation reaction induced by 0.8 , 1.5 and 3.0 gev protons , _ j.  nucl .",
    "_ , * 34 * , 529 - 537 , 1997 .",
    "mashnik , s. g. , a. j. sierk , k. a. van riper , and w. b. wilson , production and validation of isotope production cross section libraries for neutrons and protons to 1.7 gev , _ proc .",
    "sare4 ( knoxville , usa ) _ , ed .",
    "t. a. gabriel , pp .",
    "151 - 162 , oak ridge , 1999 ; ( nucl - th/9812071 ) ; our compilation ( lanl t-16 lib ) is permanently updated as new experimental data become available to us .",
    "mashnik s. g. , and a. j. sierk , recent developments of the cascade - exciton model of nuclear reactions , _ proc .",
    "nd2001 ( tsukuba , japan ) _ , _ j. nucl .",
    "_ , * supplement 2 * , 720 - 725 , 2002 ; ( nucl - th/0208074 ) .",
    "mashnik , s. g. , k. k. gudima , and a. j. sierk , merging the cem2k and laqgsm codes with gem2 to describe fission and light - fragment production , _ proc .",
    "satif-6 ( slac , usa ) _ ; lanl report la - ur-02 - 0608 , los alamos , 2002a .",
    "mashnik , s. g. , k. k. gudima , n. v. mokhov , r. e. prael , and a. j. sierk , benchmarking three codes for proton radiography applications , _ proc .",
    "satif-6 ( slac , usa ) _ ; lanl report la - ur-02 - 0304 , los alamos , 2002b .",
    "mashnik , s. g. , a. j. sierk , and k. k. gudima , complex - particle and light - fragment emission in the cascade - exciton model of nuclear reactions , _ proc .",
    "rpsd 2002 ( santa fe , nm ) _ ; lanl report la - ur-02 - 5185 , 2002c ; ( nucl - th/0208048 ) .",
    "mashnik s. g. , r. e. prael , a. j. sierk , et al .",
    ", benchmarking ten codes against the recent gsi measurements of the nuclide yields from @xmath5pb , @xmath19au , and @xmath18u + p reactions at 1 gev / nucleon , _ proc .",
    "nd2001 ( tsukuba , japan ) _ , _ j. nucl .",
    "sci . techn .",
    "_ , * supplement 2 * , 785 - 788 , 2002d ; ( nucl - th/0208075 ) .",
    "van riper , k. a. , s. g. mashnik , and w. b. wilson , a computer study of radionuclide production in high power accelerators for medical and industrial applications , _ nucl .",
    "_ , * a463 * , 576 - 585 , 2001 .",
    "webber , w. r. , j. c. kish , and d. a. schrier , formula for calculating partial cross sections for nuclear reactions of nuclei with @xmath58 mev / nucleon in hydrogen targets , _ phys .",
    "_ , * c41 * , 566 - 571 , 1990 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the cem2k and laqgsm codes have been recently developed at los alamos national laboratory to simulate nuclear reactions for a number of applications . </S>",
    "<S> we have benchmarked our codes against most available data measured at incident particle energies from 10 mev to 800 gev and have compared our results with predictions of other current models used by the nuclear community . here , we present a brief description of our codes and show some illustrative results that testify that cem2k and laqgsm can be used as reliable event generators for space - radiation - shielding , cosmic - ray propagation , and other astrophysical applications . finally , we show an example of combining of our calculated cross sections with experimental data from our lanl t-16 compilation to produce evaluated files . </S>",
    "<S> such evaluated files were successfully used in the model of particle propagation in the galaxy galprop to better constrain the size of the cosmic - ray halo . </S>"
  ]
}