{
  "article_text": [
    "explosive nuclear burning in astrophysical environments produces unstable nuclei which again can be targets for subsequent reactions .",
    "most of these nuclei are not accessible in terrestrial labs or not fully explored by experiments , yet . for the majority of unstable nuclei the statistical model ( hauser - feshbach ) can be used to determine the cross sections .",
    "however , for nuclei close to the dripline the level density becomes too low to apply the statistical model  @xcite and contributions of a direct interaction mechanism ( di ) may dominate the cross sections .",
    "the di requires the detailed knowledge of energy levels ( excitation energies , spins , parities ) , contrary to the statistical model which averages over resonances . lacking experimental data",
    ", this information has to be extracted from microscopic nuclear - structure models .",
    "we compare the results for direct neutron capture ( calculated in the optical model  @xcite ) on the even - even isotopes @xmath0sn with energy levels , masses , and nuclear density distributions taken from different nuclear - structure models .",
    "the utilized structure models were a hartree - fock - bogoliubov model ( hfb ) with skp force  @xcite , a relativistic mean field theory ( rmft ) with the parameter set nlsh  @xcite and a shell model based on folded - yukawa wave functions ( fysm )  @xcite .",
    "a similar study has already been performed for neutron - rich pb isotopes  @xcite .",
    "the cross sections were calculated in the optical model for direct capture  @xcite , utilizing optical potentials derived by the folding procedure  @xcite . in the folding approach",
    "the nuclear target density is folded with an energy- and density - dependent effective nucleon - nucleon interaction in order to obtain the potentials for the bound and scattering states .",
    "only one open parameter @xmath1 remains which accounts for the effects of antisymmetrization and is close to unity .",
    "the densities required for the determination of the folding potentials were consistently calculated from the wave functions of the respective nuclear - structure model . for the bound states",
    "the strength parameter @xmath1 was fixed by the condition to reproduce the given binding energy of the captured neutron .",
    "the value of @xmath1 for the scattering potential was adjusted to yield the same value of 425 mev @xmath2  @xcite for the volume integral as determined from the experimental scattering data on stable sn isotopes  @xcite .    in order to be able to directly compare the different models , all nuclei were assumed to be spherical and the spectroscopic factors",
    "were set to 1 .",
    "the results of the calculations for projectiles at @xmath3 kev are summarized in fig .",
    "[ snfig ] . for each model we calculated the capture cross section only up to the r - process path .",
    "the most extreme location of the path ( farthest away from the line of stability ) is determined by neutron separation energies @xmath4 mev  @xcite .",
    "depending on the microscopic model , the path will then be located at higher or lower mass numbers @xmath5 . in the case of rmft and fysm",
    "it will go through @xmath6 132134 , for hfb the path will be shifted to considerably higher mass numbers @xmath6 142144 .",
    "( the neutron dripline is also shifted to higher masses in the latter model . )",
    "similar effects as seen in the behavior of the pb cross sections  @xcite can also be found for the sn cross sections .",
    "the cross section can vary by order of magnitudes when going from one isotope to the next and also differ vastly between the different microscopic models .",
    "as the capture to low - spin states ( @xmath7=1/2 , 3/2 ) accounts for the largest contributions to the cross section , the results are very sensitive to the presence of bound low - spin states .",
    "since the microscopic models not only yield different masses ( i.e.  neutron separation energies ) but also exhibit different behaviors of the level energies with changing mass , `` jumps '' and `` gaps '' can be seen with some models ( rmft , fysm ) , whereas others ( hfb ) result in a smoother behavior of the capture cross sections in an isotopic chain .",
    "this is illustrated in fig .",
    "[ states ] , which shows the neutron separation energy and the excitation energy of the 1/2@xmath8 and 3/2@xmath8 states in rmft and hfb .",
    "as long as both states are unbound in the rmft , the cross sections remain low and only jump to higher values when those states become bound at the shell closure . as at least the 3/2@xmath8 level",
    "is always bound in hfb , the cross sections show a smoother behavior .",
    "the variation in the fysm cross sections can be explained in a similar way .",
    "with this work we have underlined that the calculation of purely theoretical direct capture cross sections far from stability still contains a large error , even when using most recent nuclear - structure models . in the previously discussed case of pb isotopes  @xcite ,",
    "the r - process path contains nuclei in or at the border of a region expected to be deformed , leading to higher level densities and thus favoring the compound nucleus mechanism .",
    "this is not true for neutron - rich isotopes in the sn region , especially around the neutron magic number @xmath9 where the level density becomes too low for the statistical model .",
    "therefore the neutron capture cross sections have to be calculated using input from nuclear - structure models and will be subject to the quoted uncertainties , even when the different models yield similar values for other nuclear properties , such as masses .",
    "9 t. rauscher , f .- k .",
    "thielemann and k .- l .",
    "kratz , memorie della societ astronomica italiana , in press .",
    "j. dobaczewski et al . , phys .  rev .",
    "lett.72 ( 1994 ) 981 .",
    "sharma , g.a .",
    "lalazissis , and p. ring , phys .",
    "b 317 ( 1993 ) 9 .",
    "p. mller and j.r .",
    "nix , nucl .",
    "a361 ( 1981 ) 117 .",
    "t. rauscher , r. bieber , s. lingner , and h. oberhummer , aip conf .",
    "proc .  327 ( 1995 ) 183 .",
    "kim , m.h .",
    "park and b.t .",
    "kim , phys .",
    "c 23 ( 1987 ) 363 .",
    "a.m. kobos , b.a .",
    "brown , r. lindsay , and g.r .",
    "satchler , nucl .",
    "phys .  a425 ( 1984 ) 205 .",
    "w. balogh , r. bieber , h. oberhummer , t. rauscher , k .-",
    "kratz , p. mohr , g. staudt , and m.m .",
    "sharma , proc.europ .",
    "workshop on heavy element nucleosynthesis , e. somorjai and z.  flp ( eds . ) , inst .  nucl .",
    "res .  hung .",
    "debrecen 1994 , p.  67 .",
    "mughabghab , m. divadeenam and n.e .",
    "holden , neutron capture cross sections , academic press , new york , 1981 .",
    "data base cinda , nndc , brookhaven national laboratory , upton , usa . f .- k . thielemann , k .-",
    "kratz , b. pfeiffer , t. rauscher , l. van wormer , and m. wiescher , nucl .",
    "phys .  a570 ( 1995 ) 329c ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the prediction of cross sections for nuclei far off stability is crucial in the field of nuclear astrophysics . for spherical nuclei close to the dripline </S>",
    "<S> the statistical model ( hauser - feshbach ) approach is not applicable and direct contributions may dominate the cross sections . for neutron - rich , even - even sn targets , we compare the resulting neutron capture cross sections when consistently taking the input for the direct capture calculations from three different microscopic models . </S>",
    "<S> the results underline the sensitivity of cross sections calculated in the direct model to nuclear structure models which can lead to high uncertainties when lacking experimental information . </S>"
  ]
}