{
  "article_text": [
    "lately we have been concerned with probing the behavior of the isospin - asymmetric equation of state ( eos ) @xcite . with our recent work on neutron radii and neutron skins @xcite",
    ", we have explored applications of the eos at densities typical for normal nuclei .",
    "it is also important to look into systems that are likely to constrain the behavior of the eos at higher densities , where the largest model dependence is observed .",
    "supernova explosions and neutron star formation / stability are phenomena where the nuclear eos plays a crucial role .",
    "the symmetry energy determines the proton fraction in neutron stars in @xmath0 equilibrium , and , in turn , the cooling rate and neutrino emission .",
    "models of prompt supernova explosion and systematic analyses of neutron star masses provide often conflicting information on the  softness \" of the eos and its incompressibility at equilibrium .    on the other hand , collisions of neutron - rich nuclei , which are the purpose of the rare isotope accelerator ( ria ) , provide a unique opportunity to obtain terrestrial data suitable for constraining the properties of dense and highly asymmetric matter .",
    "such reactions are capable of producing extended regions of space / time where both the total nucleon density and the neutron / proton asymmetry are large .",
    "isospin - dependent boltzmann - uehling - uhlenbeck ( buu ) transport models @xcite include isospin - sensitive collision dynamics through the elementary @xmath1 , @xmath2 , and @xmath3 cross sections and the mean field .",
    "the latter is a crucial isospin - dependent mechanism , and is the focal point of this paper .",
    "the contribution to the mean field from the neutron / proton asymmetry can be measured through isospin - sensitive observables @xcite . in summary , this is a timely and exciting topic , which is stimulating new effort , on both the experimental and the theoretical sides .    at this time , it is fair to say that the model dependence of the isospin asymmetric eos is rather large .",
    "in fact , even the qualitative behavior of some predictions is controversial , as is the case , for instance , with the density dependence of the symmetry energy , upon which isospin diffusion in heavy - ion collisions is found to depend sensitively @xcite .",
    "thus any additional constraint is desirable and should be fully explored . as discussed in ref .",
    "@xcite , nucleon - nucleus optical potential information can be exploited to constrain the strength and the energy dependence of the single - neutron / proton potentials in asymmetric nucler matter .",
    "the basic idea is that , even though infinite nuclear matter is an idealized system , the single - nucleon potentials should bear a clear signature of the optical potential in the interior of the nucleus .    in this paper",
    "we will discuss the predictions for the single - neutron / proton potentials and the closely related symmetry potential as obtained from our dirac - brueckner - hartree - fock calculations of asymmetric matter .",
    "we will compare with other predictions from the literature as well as empirical optical potential information .",
    "we will point out the large model dependence of predictions for those observables that depend sensitively on the difference between neutron and proton properties in asymmetric matter .",
    "additional experimental constraints are therefore important .",
    "moreover , microscopic , parameter - free approaches are the best way to gain deeper insight into the isospin - dependent properties of nuclear matter .",
    "unless otherwise specified , we use the bonn - b potential @xcite and the relativistic brueckner - hartree - fock ( dbhf ) model outlined in ref .",
    "@xcite .",
    "we begin by examining the momentum dependence of @xmath4 , the single neutron / proton potential in neutron - rich matter . in fig .  1 , we show @xmath4 as a function of the momentum and for different values of the asymmetry parameter , @xmath5 , with @xmath6 and @xmath7 the neutron and proton densities .",
    "the total nucleon density considered in the figure is equal to 0.185 @xmath8 and corresponds to a fermi momentum of 1.4 @xmath9 , which is very close to our predicted saturation density .    for increasing values of @xmath10 ,",
    "the proton potential becomes increasingly attractive while the opposite tendency is observed in @xmath11 .",
    "this reflects the fact that the proton - neutron interaction , the one predominantly felt by the single proton as the proton density is depleted , is more attractive than the one between identical nucleons . also , as it appears reasonable , the dependence on @xmath10 becomes weaker at larger momenta .    in figure 2",
    "we show the dbhf results in comparison with those from ( non - relativistic ) conventional brueckner - hartree - fock ( bhf ) calculations .",
    "we make the comparison to show the considerable difference between the two sets of results as well as to check that our bhf predictions are in qualitative agreement with other studies based on the conventional brueckner g - matrix approach . an older work based on that approach can be found , for instance , in ref .",
    "@xcite , where separable representations of the nucleon - nucleon interaction are adopted .",
    "more recent calculations have been reported in ref .",
    "@xcite , where the cd - bonn potential @xcite is used in conjunction with the bhf approximation .",
    "the role of the momentum dependence of the symmetry potential in heavy - ion collisions was recently examined @xcite and found to be important .",
    "symmetry potentials with and without momentum dependence and yielding similar predictions for the symmetry energy can lead to significantly different predictions of collision observables @xcite .      regarding @xmath4 as functions of the asymmetry parameter @xmath10",
    ", one can easily verify that the following approximate relation applies @xmath12 with the @xmath13 referring to neutron / proton , respectively .",
    "figure 3 displays the left - hand side of eq .",
    "( 1 ) for fixed density and nucleon momentum and clearly reveals the linear behaviour of @xmath4 as a function of @xmath10 .    although the main focus of fig .",
    "3 is the @xmath10 dependence , predictions are displayed for the bonn a , b , and c potentials @xcite .",
    "these three models differ mainly in the strength of the tensor force , which is mostly carried by partial waves with isospin equal to 0 and thus should fade away in the single - neutron potential as the neutron fraction increases . reduced differences among the three models are in fact observed in @xmath11 at the larger values of @xmath10 .",
    "already several decades ago , it was pointed out that the real part of the nuclear optical potential depends on the asymmetry parameter as in eq .",
    "( 1 ) @xcite .",
    "thus , the quantity @xmath14 which is obviously the single - nucleon potential in absence of asymmetry , should be a reasonable approximation to the isoscalar part of the optical potential .",
    "the momentum dependence of @xmath15 ( which is shown in fig .  1 as the @xmath10=0 curve ) , is important for extracting information about the symmetric matter eos and is reasonably agreed upon @xcite .    on the other hand ,",
    "@xmath16 should be comparable with the lane potential @xcite , or the isovector part of the nuclear optical potential @xcite .",
    "( notice that in the two equations above the dependence upon density , momentum , and asymmetry has been suppressed for simplicity . )",
    "we have calculated @xmath17 close to nuclear matter density and as a function of the momentum , or rather the corresponding kinetic energy .",
    "the predictions obtained with bonn a , b , and c are shown in fig .",
    "they are compared with the phenomenological expression @xcite @xmath18 where @xmath19 is the kinetic energy , @xmath20 , @xmath21 .",
    "the strength of the predicted symmetry potential decreases with energy , a behavior which is consistent with the empirical information .",
    "the same comparison is done in ref .",
    "@xcite starting from a phenomenological formalism for the single - nucleon potential @xcite .",
    "there , it is shown that it is possible to choose two sets of parameters which lead to similar values of the symmetry energy but exactly opposite tendencies in the energy dependence of the symmetry potential as well as opposite sign of the proton - neutron mass splitting . as a consequence of that ,",
    "these two sets of parameters lead to very different predictions for observables in heavy - ion collisions induced by neutron - rich nuclei @xcite .    our effective masses for proton and neutron",
    "are shown in fig .  5 as a function of @xmath10 and at saturation density",
    ". the predicted effective mass of the neutron being larger than the proton s is a trend shared with microscopic non - relativistic calculations @xcite . in the non - relativistic case",
    ", one can show from very elementary arguments based on the curvature of the single - particle potential that a more attractive potential , as the one of the proton , leads to a smaller effective mass . in our dbhf effective - mass approximation , we assume momentum - independent nucleon self - energies , @xmath22 and @xmath23 , with a vanishing spacial component of the vector part .",
    "in such limit , following similar calculations of symmetric matter @xcite , the one - body potential is written as @xcite @xmath24 where @xmath25 , @xmath26 , and @xmath27 or @xmath28 for neutrons or protons , respectively . defining for convenience @xmath29",
    ", the expression above becomes a two - parameter formula which requires the fitting of two constants , just like in the non - relativistic case .",
    "now , since the single - proton potential is more attractive ( see fig .  1 ) , and both the neutron and proton potentials tend to the same limit at high momenta , it is easy to see from eq .",
    "( 5 ) , or rather its derivative , that the proton effective mass obtained in this way must be smaller than the neutron s .",
    "one can encounter in the literature the statement that relativistic mean field ( rmf ) models predict a switch in sign of the neutron - proton effective mass splitting whenever the scalar isovector @xmath30 meson is included @xcite .",
    "we suggest that the reason for this mechanism is in the first - order nature of rmf calculations .",
    "the first - order contribution of the @xmath30 meson is known to be repulsive in @xmath31 ( the most important partial wave for generating nuclear binding ) . therefore , in a context where the proton density increases ( thus making the @xmath3 interaction the dominant contribution to the single - proton potential ) , a first - order calculation would in fact generate additional _ repulsion _ in the single - proton potential .",
    "hence the larger proton effective mass .",
    "on the other hand , in more microscopic approaches , such as the one we use , the nucleon potential is iterated to all orders via the in - medium scattering equation . in particular ,",
    "most of the attraction in the @xmath3 interaction is generated in second order , through the two - pion exchange .",
    "( the @xmath30 meson is included , of course , but mainly for the sake of accurate reproduction of nn phase shifts . ) as we already observed in section iia , increasing the @xmath3 contribution to the single - proton potential results in increased attraction .",
    "some comments are in place concerning other dbhf calculations of asymmetric matter where the dirac neutron effective mass is reported to be larger than the proton s @xcite . in ref .",
    "@xcite , the authors argue that the dirac mass , @xmath32 , should not be compared with the effective mass which can be extracted , for instance , from analyses based on non - relativistic optical models . instead",
    ", an effective mass based on the energy dependence of the shroedinger equivalent potential should be calculated , in which case one finds that @xmath33 .",
    "the arguments found in ref .",
    "@xcite are well known and were already advanced in ref .",
    "@xcite , where as many as six different definitions for the effective mass are introduced .",
    "again , one must keep in mind the point we already made above .",
    "if the nucleon self - energy is written in terms of a scalar potential and _ only _ the time - like component of a vector potential , and both are taken to be momentum independent , it is then easy to see that the expansion of the single - particle energy is consistent to leading order with the non - relativistic single - particle energy .",
    "thus it is reasonable , and in fact to be expected , that our dirac masses would be qualitatively consistent with those from non - relativistic predictions , such as bhf calculations . in summary ,",
    "the effective mass is just part of a convenient parametrization of the single - particle potential .",
    "clearly , how many terms are retained in the nucleon self - energy and how their momentum dependence is handled will impact the parametrization .",
    "ultimately , physical observables depending on the neutron / proton mean field must be correctly described , irrespective of the chosen parametrization .",
    "one conclusion that can be made from all of the above is that the parameters of the single - nucleon potential in asymmetric matter appear to be weakly correlated to observables such as the energy per particle or the symmetry energy , where proton and neutron contributions are averaged together .",
    "constraints from  differential \" or relative observables , namely those specifically sensitive to the difference between proton and neutron properties , are thus very much needed .    before closing",
    ", we also show for completeness the average potential energy per neutron / proton , where the momentum dependence has been integrated out .",
    "this is the proton / neutron potential energy contribution to the total energy per particle which then appears in the eos .",
    "actually , what we show in fig .",
    "5 are the average potential energies from which the part coming from the symmetric eos has been subtracted out , that is , just the contribution from the asymmetry to the interaction potential energy , @xmath34    clearly , the contribution from the asymmetry , in both the momentum - dependent and the momentum - averaged potentials , turns out to be large and positive for neutrons , large and negative for protons .",
    "this component of the mean field will then be effective in separating the collision dynamics for neutrons and protons by making more neutrons unbound than protons ( or , by making the neutrons more energetic , if already unbound ) .",
    "this effect can be discerned through observables such as the neutron / proton differential flow in heavy - ion collisions @xcite .",
    "we have focussed on some of the properties of neutrons and protons in neutron - rich matter .",
    "this is a topic of contemporary interest .",
    "its relevance extends from the dynamics of colliding nuclei to nuclear astrophysics .",
    "different models may be in fair agreement with respect to averaged properties of the eos , and yet produce very different predictions of properties such as the symmetry potential and the closely related single - nucleon potentials and effective masses .",
    "clearly , more stringent constraints are needed for the isospin - dependent properties of the eos .",
    "very good transport model calculations are available from the literature @xcite .",
    "however , considerable amount of phenomenology is often involved in the input of these models ( for instance , the mean field is based on some phenomenological interaction @xcite and/or the elementary cross sections are obtained from empirical data ) .",
    "we calculate all of the above ingredients _ microscopically _ and internally consistent with respect to the two - body force .",
    "we are presently studying the dependence on density _ and _ asymmetry of the in - medium isospin - dependent nucleon - nucleon cross sections with the purpose of obtaining a convenient parametrization as a function of energy , density , and asymmetry .",
    "our microscopic information ( both elementary cross sections and mean field ) can be a valuable input for transport model calculations of heavy - ion dynamical observables .",
    "this combined effort will complement new data to be taken at ria and eventually shed light on the less known aspects of the nuclear equation of state .",
    "+   +        d. alonso and f. sammarruca , phys .",
    "c * 67 * , 054301 ( 2003 ) .",
    "d. alonso and f. sammarruca , phys .",
    "c * 68 * , 054305 ( 2003 ) .",
    "see , for instance , b.a .",
    "li , phys .",
    "rev . lett . * 85 * , 4221 ( 2000 ) , and references therein .",
    "ko , and z. ren , phys .",
    "lett . * 78 * , 1644 ( 1997 ) ; phys .",
    "lett . * 88 * , 192701 ( 2002 ) .",
    "chen , c.m .",
    "ko , and b .- a .",
    "li , nucl - th/0407032 .",
    "li , phys .",
    "c * 69 * , 064602 ( 2004 ) .",
    "r. machleidt , adv .",
    "* 19 * , 189 ( 1989 ) .",
    "i. bombaci and u. lombardo , phys .",
    "c * 44 * , 1892 ( 1991 ) .",
    "kh.s.a . hassaneen and h. mther , nucl - th/0408035 .",
    "r. machleidt , phys .",
    "c * 63 * , 024001 ( 2001 ) .",
    "bao - an li , champak b. das , subal das gupta , and charles gale , phys .",
    "c * 69 * , 011603 ( 2004 ) . c. gale , g. bertsch , and s. das gupta , phys",
    "c * 35 * , 1666 ( 1987 ) .",
    "welke , m. prakash , t.t.s .",
    "kuo , s. das gupta , and c. gale , phys .",
    "c * 38 * , 2101 ( 1988 ) . c. gale , g.m .",
    "welke , m. prakash , s.j .",
    "lee , and s. das gupta , phys .",
    "c * 41 * , 1545 ( 1990 ) .",
    "q. pan and p. danielewicz , phys .",
    "lett . * 70 * , 2062 ( 1993 ) .",
    "j. zhang , s. das gupta , and c. gale , phys . rev .",
    "c * 50 * , 1617 ( 1994 ) . v. greco , a. guarnera , m. colonna , and m. di toro , phys .",
    "c * 59 * , 810 ( 1999 ) .",
    "p. danielewicz , nucl . phys .",
    "* a673 * , 375 ( 2000 ) .",
    "d. persram and c. gale , phys .",
    "c * 65 * , 064611 ( 2002 ) . a.m. lane , nucl .",
    "phys , * 35 * , 676 ( 1962 ) .",
    "i. bombaci , chap.2 in _ isospin physics in heavy - ion collisions at intermediate energies _ , eds . b.a .",
    "li and w. udo schrder ( nova science publishers , inc .",
    ", new york , 2001 ) .",
    "et al . _ ,",
    "phys , * a732 * , 202 ( 2004 ) .",
    "r. brockmann and r. machleidt , phys .",
    "b * 149 * , 283 ( 1984 ) ; phys .",
    "c * 42 * , 1965 ( 1990 ) .",
    "das , s. das gupta , c. gale , and bao - an li , phys .",
    "c * 67 * , 034611 ( 2003 ) .",
    "z - y . ma , j. rong , b .- q .",
    "chen , z .- y .",
    "zhu , h .- q . song , phys . lett .",
    "* b * , in press . e.n.e .",
    "van dalen , c. fuchs , and a. faessler , nucl - th/0407070 .",
    "m. jaminon and c. mahaux , phys .",
    "c * 40 * , 354 ( 1989 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we discuss the one - body potentials for protons and neutrons obtained from dirac - brueckner - hartree - fock calculations of neutron - rich matter , in particular their dependence upon the degree of proton / neutron asymmetry . </S>",
    "<S> the closely related symmetry potential is compared with empirical information from the isovector component of the nuclear optical potential . </S>"
  ]
}