{
  "article_text": [
    "a series of experiments performed by a number of research groups have brought light to the phenomenon of the quasi - elastic scattering of ucn at surfaces displaying surprisingly small energy changes in the order of @xmath0 ev @xcite .",
    "a detailed study of this process @xcite has allowed us to conclude that , for solid surfaces at least , this is due to the inelastic coherent scattering of ucn on nanoparticles or nanostructures weakly attached to the surface in a state of permanent thermal motion .",
    "this conclusion triggered the idea considered in this article of neutron cooling at ultracold nanoparticles .",
    "complete control of the corresponding ucn losses from storage bottles and/or a significant increase in ucn density are of utmost importance for neutron - based research in fundamental physics .",
    "this research includes the measurement of the neutron lifetime @xcite , the search for the non - zero neutron electric dipole moment @xcite , the study of the gravitationally bound quantum states of neutrons @xcite , and the search for the non - zero neutron electric charge @xcite .    in any experiment with trapped neutrons , nanoparticle temperature is equal to the trap temperature @xmath1 in the typical range of @xmath2-@xmath3 k , while ucn energy corresponds to ucn temperature t @xmath41 mk .",
    "ultracold neutrons therefore preferentially increase their energy in collisions with such  warm \" nanoparticles .",
    "the probability of such inelastic ucn scattering on the surface is small , since the surface density of such weakly attached nanoparticles is typically small .",
    "however , the problem of neutron heating due to neutron - nanoparticle interaction can in principle be reversed : the interaction of warm neutrons with ultracold nanoparticles at a temperature of @xmath41 mk can cool down the neutrons @xcite .",
    "if the density of weakly bound nanoparticles is high ( these nanoparticles not only cover the surface but also fill the volume ) and if , as the neutrons cool , the probability of their absorption and @xmath5-decay is low , the neutron density will increase .",
    "this process can , for the first time , allow equilibrium cooling of neutrons down to the ucn temperature .",
    "one should note that in this case the moderator temperature should be as low as the ucn temperature in contrast to traditional methods to produce ucn .",
    "the cooling of neutrons in nuclear reactors and spallation sources by a factor of about 10@xmath6 ! is achieved by just a few dozen collisions with nuclei in reactor moderators ( hydrogen , deuterium ) .",
    "the energy transfer is very efficient since the mass of the moderator nuclei is equal to ( or approximates ) the neutron mass and the neutron losses during the cooling process are low due to small number of collisions needed to slow down neutrons .",
    "however , no further efficient cooling occurs : the lower the neutron energy , the larger the neutron wavelength . when the wavelength becomes commensurate with the distance between the nuclei of the moderator ,",
    "the neutrons do not  see \" individual nuclei any longer ",
    "they are just affected by the average optical potential of the medium .",
    "a further cooling of the neutrons due to their interaction with collective degrees of freedom ( such as phonons ) is less efficient than the moderation of the neutrons due to their collisions with nuclei .",
    "that is insufficient however to cool the main portion of the neutrons to the ucn energy region @xcite .",
    "the idea of neutron cooling on ultracold nanoparticles consists in reproducing the principle of neutron cooling in reactor moderators using multiple collisions .",
    "however , there is a difference in scale : the sizes of scattering centers are greater by a factor of @xmath7 ; this increases the energy range of application of this mechanism by a few orders of magnitude .",
    "it should be noted that a ucn source of this type is based on the principle of ucn density accumulation , as in a super - thermal source @xcite , but not on the use of a ucn flux from a source in the flow - through mode . in conventional sources used to select ucn , thermal equilibrium is not achieved .",
    "these sources are much hotter than ucn .",
    "only a very small portion of the neutrons is used  the other neutrons are lost .",
    "actually , these are sources of cold or very cold neutrons ( vcn ) , and experimentalists have to select a narrow fraction of a broad energy spectrum .",
    "for instance , the most intense flux of ucn available for users is now produced in a liquid - deuterium source placed within the core of the high - flux reactor at the institut laue - langevin ( ill ) @xcite .",
    "it increases the ucn flux by a factor of about @xmath8 in relation to that available otherwise in the reactor in the thermal equilibrium spectrum .",
    "only a fraction of the neutron flux of about @xmath9 is thus actually used . on the other hand",
    ", the cooling of neutrons on ultracold nanoparticles could provide for further neutron cooling in a significant energy range , thereby increasing the neutron density .    the new method for producing ucn consists in the equilibrium cooling of vcn  through their many collisions with ultracold nanoparticles made from low - absorption materials ( d@xmath10 , d@xmath10o , o@xmath10 etc . )  down to the temperature of these nanoparticles of @xmath11 mk , during the diffusion motion of these neutrons in a macroscopically large body of nanoparticles .",
    "the principle of equilibrium cooling allows an increase in the neutron phase - space density , in contrast to the method of selecting a narrow energy range out of a warmer neutron spectrum .",
    "the use of nanoparticles provides a sufficiently large cross section for coherent interaction and an inhomogeneity of the moderator density , on a spatial scale of about the neutron wavelength ; it also shifts the energy transfer range far below a value of about @xmath12 ev , the characteristic limit for liquid and solid moderators .",
    "many collisions are needed since the mass of the nanoparticles is much larger than the neutron mass ; the energy transfer to nanoparticles and nanostructures is only moderately efficient .",
    "the need for a large number of collisions limits the choice of materials : only low absorption materials are appropriate .",
    "the temperature of the nanoparticles must correspond to the minimal energy to which neutrons can still be cooled using this method .",
    "the diffusion motion of neutrons in the body of nanoparticles allows us to minimize the thermalization length and , accordingly , to increase the achievable ucn density .    the cooling itself",
    "is provided by the interaction of neutrons with individual degrees of freedom of weakly bound or free nanoparticles , as well as by the excitation of collective degrees of freedom in the body of nanoparticles ( e.g. vibrations and rotations ) , and also by the breaking of inter - particle bonds .",
    "details about gels of nanoparticles can be found in @xcite .",
    "even free nanoparticles in the gel have several degrees of freedom : rotation and translation . in this paper",
    ", we provide detailed calculations of the cooling of neutrons in a gel of nanoparticles , considering only the collisions on free nanoparticles , and neglecting the rotation .",
    "the interaction between the nanoparticles , including the long - range interaction induced by helium , is neglected here .",
    "so we deal with an idealized gas of free nanoparticles at @xmath13 in superfluid helium .",
    "our goal is to determine the behavior of a neutron in such a moderator .    in section [ model ] , we give a model for the interaction of a neutron with a single nanoparticle in suspension in liquid helium .",
    "this model leads to a complete quantum solution for three main quantities , which are , the absorption cross section @xmath14 , the total scattering cross section @xmath15 , and at last , the mean relative energy loss per collision @xmath16 .",
    "this allows us to describe the slowing down of neutrons in a gas of free nanoparticles . in section [ infmoderator ]",
    ", we deal with the ideal situation of the infinite moderator , an infinite medium made with nanoparticles surrounded by helium at @xmath17 k , and where the only loss of neutrons are due to the absorption by a nanoparticle ( @xmath5-decay is neglected ) .",
    "this naive model provides necessary conditions for an efficient moderation . in section [ realmoderator ]",
    ", we will present estimations for finite moderators , the characteristic size and the characteristic time of thermalization .",
    "we compare efficiency of the moderator with nanoparticles made of different materials , and also for different nanoparticle sizes .",
    "we first chose deuterium as the material to illustrate the calculations .",
    "let us consider a nanoparticle with radius r , made of hundreds of nuclei , immersed into superfluid helium .",
    "a low energy incident neutron only sees the average potential of each nanoparticle .",
    "so we will assume the following phenomenological potential for the interaction of a neutron with the considered nanoparticle : @xmath18 we will provide detailed calculations of the collision parameters in the born approximation using this model . but let us first estimate all the parameters of the potential ( [ pot1 ] ) describing neutron - nanoparticle interaction .",
    "the potential @xmath19 is taken to be the averaged of each nucleus _ fermi _ potential in the nanoparticle ( neutron - helium interaction potential has to be subtracted ) : @xmath20 where the sum is done over the different kinds of nuclei in the nanoparticle  for instance , for a heavy water nanoparticle , we must take into account the contributions of both deuterium and oxygen nuclei . in each term of the sum",
    ", @xmath21 is the number of nuclei of type @xmath22 per volume unit , and @xmath23 is the interaction potential between a neutron and a @xmath22-type nucleus .",
    "the real part of this potential can be derived from the coherent scattering length @xmath24 @xmath25 where @xmath26 is the neutron mass .",
    "the imaginary part of the potential , which describes the possibility of the neutron capture , can be calculated from the absorption cross section via the optical theorem , taking into account the fact that this interaction is not strong and can be treated within the first born approximation : @xmath27 the experimental data are given for thermal neutrons , i.e. for a neutron velocity of @xmath28 m / s .",
    "so we express the result in term of @xmath29 , where @xmath30 is the wave vector of a thermal neutron .",
    "eventually : @xmath31    .[nuclear]nuclear data used in these calculations .",
    "the experimental data are taken from @xcite . [",
    "cols=\"^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     we can see that this is a serious limitation , but not that dramatic . actually , for practical purposes , the lowest energy we are interested in is that corresponding to the lowest temperature achievable with a dilution cryostat , which is about @xmath2 mk . the corresponding wave vector is about @xmath32 nm@xmath33 .",
    "so we only need to know , for practical purposes , the first correction of @xmath15 , @xmath14 and @xmath34 due to the interference of neutron waves on the neighboring nanoparticles . and",
    "this can be done , because the first correction can be estimated considering only two nanoparticles .",
    "this approach is valid until the neutron wavelength covers three or more nanoparticles , that means that it is valid until @xmath35/2 .",
    "let @xmath36 be the vector distance between two nanoparticles .",
    "at the first order of born approximation  neglecting multiple diffusions ",
    "the scattering amplitude for a neutron colliding on this system of two nanoparticles is given by : @xmath37 where @xmath38 is the momentum transfer and @xmath39 is the scattering amplitude for the collision on a single nanoparticle . from that result , we can conclude that the amplitude for the forward scattering ",
    "@xmath40  is simply twice the amplitude calculated for a single nanoparticle .",
    "we can conclude that the absorption cross section is not affected by the interferences .",
    "now , to calculate the effects of interferences on the scattering cross section and the energy loss , the physical relevant quantity is the average differential scattering cross section , averaging on all possible directions for @xmath36 : @xmath41 is is now possible to calculate @xmath15 and @xmath34 using this new effective differential cross section .",
    "figure [ interferences ] shows our plot of the relevant quantity , @xmath42 , we can call the energy loss cross section , and the one calculated with the estimated correction .",
    "one can see that the first order correction is not important .",
    "is plotted as a function of velocity , for a deuterium nanoparticle of radius 1 nm .",
    "the dot line is calculated without interference effects , and the continuous line take into account the first correction due to interference effects . ]      in all our calculations , we assumed that the helium was purely @xmath43he , with no absorption , therefore , by the helium medium .",
    "we also assumed that the deuterium in the nanoparticles was pure .",
    "let us estimate the purity we actually need .",
    "firstly , consider the presence of hydrogen  which is an efficient neutron absorber  inside the deuterium .",
    "we can compute the purity needed so that the absorption differs from the ideal case by less than 10 % .",
    "if @xmath44 is the proportion of hydrogen relatively to deuterium , then the absorption cross section is : @xmath45 using the table [ nuclear ] we can find that the requirement of less than 10 % increase is satisfied if @xmath46 .",
    "we can easily achieve this purity .",
    "let us now consider the presence of @xmath47he . we can estimate the lifetime @xmath48 of a neutron due to the absorption by @xmath47he .",
    "if @xmath44 is the proportion of @xmath47he , @xmath14 is the absorption cross section for thermal neutrons ( with velocity @xmath49 m / s ) , and @xmath50 is the density of helium nuclei , then : @xmath51 if we have a purity @xmath52 , the absorption lifetime @xmath48 is ten times the intrinsic neutron lifetime .",
    "the natural abundance of @xmath47he is @xmath53 , and the purity we need is achievable .",
    "a new concept for producing high ucn density is analyzed within the framework of the free nanoparticles model .",
    "this concept is based on neutron cooling using ultracold nanoparticles of deuterium , heavy water , etc .",
    "we have shown that increase in the phase space density of neutrons , within the model of free nanoparticles , is possible , given certain parameters of nanoparticles and neutron velocity .",
    "thus , solid deuterium , which is shown to be the best material , provides efficient cooling of neutrons in the range 1 - @xmath8 m / s , in an infinite medium of free nanoparticles of radius 1 - 2 nm , sufficiently spatially separated .",
    "the characteristic cooling time is much shorter than the corresponding absorption time , or the neutron @xmath5-decay lifetime for optimum parameters of neutrons and nanoparticles .",
    "the moderator size of , at most , a few times 10 cm allows in principle the realization of the cooling mechanism presented .",
    "we examine the different constraints on the model , such as scattering at individual nuclei ( for too short wavelengths ) , excitation of internal degrees of freedom in a nanoparticle ( such as phonons ) , extensions of the born approximation description used ( the partial waves expansion ) , neutron optical effects due to diffraction at several nanoparticles simultaneously , the purity of deuterium or helium .",
    "we show that these constraints do not change our main conclusions .",
    "we do not consider in this present article such effects as rotation of the nanoparticles , interaction between nanoparticles , in particular excitation of the collective degrees of freedom for nanoparticles in gels or any breaking of the inter - nanoparticles bounds .",
    "we do not consider neither the influence of the non - zero temperature of the nanoparticles on the cooling process .",
    "these phenomena are expected to be analyzed in further publications .",
    "since the potential interaction between a neutron and a nanoparticle is approximated by spherical rectangular barrier , it is possible to give exact solution for the scattering amplitude , using the partial wave expansion .",
    "the analytical solution for the scattering amplitude @xmath54 for @xmath55th partial wave is known @xcite to be equal to @xmath56 where @xmath57 are spherical hankel functions and @xmath58 where @xmath59 is spherical bessel function and @xmath60 .",
    "the result is shown in fig .",
    "[ partwaves ] , for a deuterium nanoparticle of radius @xmath62 nm .",
    "we first estimated this size to be the limit of application of the born approximation .",
    "the figure shows that the born approximation is actually precise enough .",
    "the width of the bold line in the figure corresponds to a relative error of @xmath63 , and there is no deviation between the born approximation result and the partial wave result at this precision level .",
    "strelkov , v. v.  nesvizhevsky , p.  geltenbort , d.g .",
    "kartashov , e.v .",
    "lychagin , a.yu .",
    "muzychka , j.m .",
    "pendlebury , k.  schreckenbach , v.n .",
    "shvetsov , a.p .",
    "serebrov , r.r .",
    "taldaev , and p.s .",
    "iaydjiev , nucl .",
    "* a440 * , 695 ( 2000 ) .",
    "p.  geltenbort , v.v .",
    "nesvizhevsky , d.g .",
    "kartashov , e.v .",
    "lychagin , a.yu .",
    "muzychka , g.v .",
    "nekhaev , v.n .",
    "shvetsov , a.v .",
    "strelkov , a.g .",
    "kharitonov , a.p .",
    "serebrov , r.r .",
    "taldaev , and j.m .",
    "pendlebury , jetp lett . * 70 * , 170 ( 1999 ) [ pisma zh .",
    "* 70 * , 175 ( 1999 ) ] .",
    "nesvizhevsky , a.p .",
    "serebrov , r.r .",
    "taldaev , a.g .",
    "kharitonov , v.p .",
    "alfimenkov , a.v .",
    "strelkov , and v.n .",
    "shvetsov , sov .",
    "jetp * 75 * , 405 ( 1992 ) [ zhurnal eksperimentalnoi i teoreticheskoi fiziki * 102 * , 740 ( 1992 ) ] .",
    "altarev , yu.v .",
    "borisov , n.v .",
    "borovikova , s.n .",
    "ivanov , e.a .",
    "kolomenskii , m.s .",
    "lasakov , v.m .",
    "lobashev , v.a .",
    "nazarenko , a.n .",
    "pirozhkov , a.p .",
    "serebrov , yu.a .",
    "sobolev , r.r .",
    "taldaev , e.v .",
    "shulgina , and a.i .",
    "yegorov , phys . lett . *",
    "b276 * , 242 ( 1987 ) .",
    "nesvizhevsky , h.g .",
    "brner , a.m.  gagarski , a.k .",
    "petukhov , g.a .",
    "petrov , h.  abele , s.  bssler , g.  divkovic , f.j .",
    "ruess , th.stferle , a.  westphal , a.v .",
    "strelkov , k.v .",
    "protasov , and a.yu .",
    "voronin , phys . rev . *",
    "d67 * , 102002 ( 2003 ) .",
    "borisov , n.v .",
    "borovikova , a.v .",
    "vasilyev , l.a .",
    "grigorieva , s.n .",
    "ivanov , n.t .",
    "kashukeev , v.v .",
    "nesvizhevsky , a.p .",
    "serebrov , p.s .",
    "iadjiev , j. tech . phys . * 58 * , 1 ( 1988 ) [ zh . tech . fiz .",
    "* 58 * , 951 ( 1988 ) ] .",
    "nesvizhevsky , g.  pignol , and k.v .",
    "_ thermalisation of neutrons by ultracold nanoparticles_. to be published in aps proceedings of the _ 24th international conference on low temperature physics _",
    "( orlando , florida , usa , 1017 august 2005 )",
    ".          i.s .",
    "altarev , n.v .",
    "borovikova , a.p .",
    "bulkin , v.v .",
    "vesna , e.a .",
    "garusov , l.a .",
    "grigorieva , a.i .",
    "egorov , b.g .",
    "erozolimski , a.n .",
    "erykalov , a.a .",
    "zakharov , s.n .",
    "ivanov , v.ya .",
    "kezerashvili , s.g .",
    "kirsanov , e.a .",
    "kolomenski , k.a .",
    "konoplev , i.a .",
    "kuznetsov , v.m .",
    "lobashev , n.f .",
    "maslov , v.a .",
    "mitykhlyaev , i.s .",
    "okunev , b.g .",
    "peskov , yu.v .",
    "petrov , p.g .",
    "pikulik , n.a .",
    "pirozhkov , g.d .",
    "porsev , a.p .",
    "serebrov , yu.v .",
    "sobolev , r.r .",
    "taldaev , v.a .",
    "shustov , and a.f.shchebetov , jetp lett .",
    "* 44 * , 344 ( 1986 ) [ pisma zh .",
    "fiz . * 44 * , 269 ( 1986 ) ] .",
    "a.  saunders , j.m .",
    "anaya , t.j .",
    "bowles , b.w .",
    "filippone , p.  geltenbort , r.e .",
    "hill , m.  hino , s.  hoedl , g.e .",
    "hogan , t.m .",
    "ito , k.w .",
    "jones , t.  kawai , k.  kirch , s.k .",
    "lamoreaux , c.y .",
    "liu , m.  makela , l.j .",
    "marek , j.w .",
    "martin , c.l .",
    "morris , r.n .",
    "mortensen , a.  pichlmaier , s.j .",
    "seestrom , a.  serebrov , d.  smith , w.  teasdale , b.  tipton , r.b .",
    "vogelaar , a.r .",
    "young , and j.  yuan , phys",
    "b593 * , 55 ( 2004 ) .",
    "s.  glasstone , a.  sesonske , _ nuclear reactor engineering _ ,",
    "4th edition , v. i. , ( chapman and hall , an international thomson publishing company , new york , albany , bonn , boston , cincinnati , detroit , london , madrid , melbourne , mexico city , pacific grove , paris , san francisco , singapore , tokyo , toronto , washington , 1994 ) , p. 173"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> ultracold and very cold neutrons ( ucn and vcn ) interact strongly with nanoparticles due to the similarity of their wavelengths and nanoparticles sizes . </S>",
    "<S> we analyze the hypothesis that this interaction can provide efficient cooling of neutrons by ultracold nanoparticles at certain experimental conditions , thus increasing the density of ucn by many orders of magnitude . </S>",
    "<S> the present analytical and numerical description of the problem is limited to the model of independent nanoparticles at zero temperature </S>",
    "<S> . constraints of application of this model are discussed . </S>"
  ]
}