{
  "article_text": [
    "in the past decade a search , both theoretical and experimental , for deeply bound states was conducted , which lead to the successful detection of these states in @xmath4 isotopes in @xcite . a review of the methods proposed and early attempts prior to the detection at gsi can be found in @xcite .",
    "out of many reactions proposed it was envisaged in @xcite that two reactions stood better chances , the @xmath5 reaction @xcite and the radiative capture in low energy pion scattering @xmath6 @xcite , both of them leaving a bound pion in the nucleus .",
    "the first reaction offers a special characteristic , very dear in production of bound particles in nuclei , which is its recoilless nature for some kinematics .",
    "the second reaction is also nearly recoilless and has the additional advantage of being a coherent reaction , hence benefiting from an extra @xmath7 factor in the cross section .",
    "this extra advantage is however counterbalanced by the the fact that the pions are secondary beams and hence one has smaller fluxes than with primary beams like the @xmath8 in the first reaction .",
    "the first reaction is the one that led to the successful detection of the pionic states , while the second one , carried out at triumf @xcite , offered a much less clear evidence because lack of enough resolution in the photon detector .",
    "yet , it proved a worth method to be considered in the future when better resolution is achieved since it produces the pionic states in the ground state of stable nuclei , like @xmath1 .",
    "the @xmath5 reaction leads instead both to ground and excited states of a - odd nuclei where the atomic and nuclear levels mix .",
    "the experience on the history of these reactions also stresses the importance of having a recoilless reaction and using primary beams .",
    "another reaction which fulfills these conditions is the @xmath0 reaction where a particular kinematics can be chosen to make the reaction recoilless in the production of the pionic atom .",
    "a suggestion to use this reaction for the production of omega bound states in nuclei has been done in @xcite , although the large width predicted for these states would most probably prevent the observation of clean peaks . in the present case we already know from experiment that the widths are smaller than the separation of the levels .",
    "the success of the reaction is then tied to the magnitude of the cross sections for the reaction and the ratio of signal to the background coming from other reactions where no pions are produced but a proton is detected . indeed ,",
    "consideration of the background is important since the signal for the bound pion production is the detection of a proton with an energy equal to the one of the photon minus the pion mass ( and the binding energies ) .",
    "however , the same protons can be obtained from the inclusive @xmath0 process in which the proton has collisions and loses energy .",
    "since the reaction is made practically recoilless , the elementary amplitude for the process is extremely simple since only the kroll ruderman term contributes .",
    "thus the nuclear amplitude for the process of fig .",
    "1 is given by        in eq .",
    "( 1 ) we have used a plane wave for the proton , but it is clear that a distorted wave should be used and we shall do that below .",
    "in addition we sum and average the cross section over final and initial polarizations .",
    "we show explicitly below the results obtained with the photon polarization given by @xmath17 .      where @xmath21 and @xmath22 are the radial wave functions of the pion and bound neutron states , and @xmath23 the spherical harmonics removing the @xmath24 factor .",
    "the proton distorted wave @xmath25 is obtained for each proton partial wave by solving the schrdinger equation with the appropriate boundary condition shown in eq .",
    "( 12 ) in ref .",
    "we take the proton - nucleus optical potential from @xcite and it is given by      where @xmath22 and @xmath27 are the radius and diffuseness parameters taken to be 7.35 fm and 0.65 fm for pb , respectively . the energy dependent potential strength @xmath28 and @xmath29 are shown in fig .",
    "2.10 ( for the real part ) and fig . 4.6 ( for the imaginary part ) in ref .",
    "we also add the coulomb potential with finite size of the nucleus , which is the same one used for the @xmath30 with opposite sign .          by numerical calculations , we find that the effect of the coulomb barrier for the emitted proton is large for low energy protons , suppressing the signals significantly . on the other hand ,",
    "if we increase the proton kinetic energy in the final states , which is equivalent to increasing the incident photon energy , this moves us away from the recoilless condition of the reaction .",
    "thus , we evaluate the pionic atom formation spectra for several incident photon energies in order to find the optimal kinematical condition .",
    "we conclude that we have the largest signals at an incident photon energy @xmath33 , while the recoilless condition appears at @xmath34 .",
    "the results for the double differential cross section of the reaction are shown in fig .",
    "as we expect for the nearly recoilless kinematics , the substitutional states make the largest peaks and the dominant contributions come from the 2p pionic state with neutron p@xmath35 and p@xmath36 hole states .",
    "we can also see the pionic 1s state formation at t@xmath37=29 @xmath38 30 mev .",
    "the formation cross section is reduced by around the 30 % from the plane wave approximation for the largest signal due to the distortion effects on the emitted proton and is estimated to be about 20 @xmath39 for the largest signal .    as for the background for the present reaction",
    "it can be easily estimated using experimental results already available from the study of the inclusive @xmath0 reaction in nuclei @xcite . there",
    "we can see results in @xmath40pb at @xmath41 and @xmath42 .",
    "the cross sections go down to e@xmath37=40mev and hence it is easy to extrapolate the results smoothly to e@xmath37=30mev that we have in the present case .",
    "the differential cross sections for a proton angle of 52@xmath43 are 50 @xmath44 and 100 @xmath44 for @xmath41 and @xmath45 , respectively .",
    "extrapolating from these two data to @xmath33 we obtain a cross section of 32 @xmath44 for the background of inclusive ( @xmath3,p ) in our reaction at this angle .",
    "this result could be also obtained theoretically using the approach of @xcite where a monte carlo simulation was performed with the probabilities for the primary nuclear steps evaluated with a microscopic many body calculation in @xcite .",
    "this inclusive ( @xmath3,p ) cross section is about double the one obtained for the peaks of the signals of the pionic atoms in an average .",
    "however , at small angles , where we have evaluated the pionic atom formation cross sections , the background should be even smaller , and this is the case in the theoretical model of @xcite , because kinematically it is not possible to have contribution to the process with just one collision .",
    "this situation is particularly rewarding in view to distinguish these states experimentally . on the other hand , although our calculations do not deem it necessary , it should be possible to further increase the ratio of signal to background using delayed fission of pion absorption fragments , a technique used with success in the production of @xmath46 hypernuclei in @xcite and tentatively suggested for the present reaction @xcite .",
    "the set up for the experiment is suited to present experimental facilities , particularly those of low energies , and the cross sections predicted are of the order of those presently being measured with high precision in the ( @xmath3,p ) reaction @xcite , which makes this reaction a very practical method to produce deeply bound pionic atoms .",
    "one of us , s.h .",
    "wishes to acknowledge the hospitality of the university of valencia where this work was done and financial support from the fundacion bbv .",
    "we would like to thank a. margarian for useful discussions and encouragement to perform these calculations .",
    "this work is also partly supported by dgicyt contract number bfm2000 - 1326 and by the grants - in - aid for scientific research of the japan ministry of education , culture , sports , science and technology ( no .",
    "11440073 and no .",
    "11694082 ) .",
    "99 t. yamazaki et al . , z. phys .",
    "a355 ( 1996 ) 219 ; phys .",
    "b418(1998)246 , h. gilg et al .",
    "c62 ( 2000 ) 025201 , k. itahashi et al . ,",
    "phys . rev .",
    "c62 ( 2000 ) 025202 .",
    "h. geissel et al . , nucl .",
    "a663 ( 2000 ) 206c .",
    "e. oset and j. nieves , hyperfine interactions 103 ( 1996 ) 285 h. toki , s. hirenzaki , and t. yamazaki , nucl . phys .",
    "a530 ( 1991 ) 679 , s. hirenzaki , h. toki , and t. yamazaki , phys .",
    "c44 ( 1991 ) 2472 .",
    "j. nieves and e. oset , phys .",
    "b282 ( 1992 ) 24 k.j .",
    "raywood et al . , phys.rev.c55 ( 1997 ) 2492 e. marco and w. weise , phys .",
    "b502 ( 2001 ) 59 j. nieves and e. oset , phys .",
    "c47 ( 1993 ) 1478 . c. mahaux , p. f. bortignon , r. a. broglia and c. h. dasso , phys .",
    "120 ( 1985 ) 1 .",
    "j. arends et al .",
    "a526 ( 1991 ) 479 .",
    "carrasco , m.j .",
    "vicente vacas and e. oset , nucl .",
    "phys . a 570 ( 1994 ) 701 r.c .",
    "carrasco and e. oset , nucl .",
    "a536 ( 1992 ) 445 h. ohm et al . , phys.rev.c55 ( 1997 ) 3062 ; f. garibaldi et al . ,",
    "7th international conference on mesons and light nuclei 98 , pruhonice , prague , czech republic , mesons and light nuclei 98 * 216 - 223 .",
    "a. t. margarian , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth . ,"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study the @xmath0 reaction on @xmath1 leading to @xmath2 with a bound pion attached to it in the lowest 1s or 2p pionic levels . </S>",
    "<S> the reaction can be made recoilless to optimize the production cross section but we must choose a bit higher photon energy to overcome the coulomb barrier in the proton emission . </S>",
    "<S> the cross sections obtained are easily measurable and can be larger than 50 per cent of the background from inclusive ( @xmath3,p ) . </S>",
    "<S> this makes it a clear case for the detection of the pionic atom signals , converting this reaction into a practical tool to produce deeply bound pionic atoms . </S>"
  ]
}