{
  "article_text": [
    "the main effort of theoretical studies on neutrino - nucleus reactions at intermediate energies ( few hundreds mev ) has been devoted to quasi - elastic ( qe ) charged - current ( cc ) reactions .",
    "this is due to the fact that water cerenkov detectors only detect outgoing charged leptons .",
    "new experiments such as k2k aim to measure the espectrum of outgoing nucleons produced in neutral currents ( nc ) in this energy range .",
    "these kind of observables are also of interest when dealing with the extraction of information on strange quark axial content of the nucleon . for a correct theoretical anlysis of these experiments",
    "we have to take into account the rescattering effect of the outgoing nucleons in its way out of the nucleus .    in @xcite a model dealing with qe cc reactions of the type",
    "@xmath0 was presented .",
    "this model was based in a local fermi gas model of the nucleus and included further nuclear effects in a parameter free fashion , thus leading to one of the best descriptions of the lsnd @xcite experiments .",
    "our confidence in this model at intermediate energies higher than those of @xcite is based on the fact that a similar model @xcite is the only model on electron scattering that has been successfully compared with experiment from the qe to the @xmath1 excitation regions .    in section [ seccnc ]",
    "we extend the model in @xcite to nc @xmath2 .",
    "section [ seccmc ] deals with the monte carlo treatment of the rescattering problem .",
    "finally we show results for outgoing nucleon observables in cc and nc .",
    "in nc processes the @xmath3 boson can be absorbed by one nucleon leading to the qe contribution of the nuclear response function .",
    "@xmath4 we obtain the cross section of this proccess by calculating the imaginary part of the self - energy diagram associated to the @xmath3 absorption in nuclear matter .",
    "results for finite nuclei are obtained with the local density approximation .",
    "this method was also used in @xcite with cc processes , the main differences in nc arising from the vertex @xmath5 @xmath6 with vector and axial nucleon nc given by @xmath7 thanks to su(3 ) symmetry some relations exist among the nc form factors and the cc ( @xmath8 , @xmath9 and @xmath10 ) and the electromagnetic ones .",
    "we have to introduce @xmath11 and @xmath12 , the strange vector and axial nucleon form factors @xcite .",
    "we use the parametrizations of @xcite for electromagnetic form factors and those of fit ii in @xcite for strange ones .    like in @xcite",
    "further nuclear effects were taken into account , mainly keeping a correct energy balance and including long range correlations ( rpa ) . the main differences with respect to cc",
    "arise from the inclusion of isoscalar pieces in the nucleon - nucleon effective interaction and the absence of the outgoing lepton coulomb interaction with the final nucleus .",
    "in the previous section we overviewed the evaluation of nc inclusive neutrino induced cross sections in the qe region .",
    "thus we determined , for a fix incoming neutrino energy , the inclusive qe cross section @xmath13 ( @xmath14 , @xmath15 solid angle and energy of the outgoing lepton ) . in our scheme this is obtained after performing an integration over the whole nuclear volume , following the line of the local density approximation of the fermi gas model .",
    "thus , for a fix transferred four momentum @xmath16 , chosen according to @xmath17 , we can randomly select the point of the nucleus where the absorption takes place using the profile @xmath18 .",
    "now , we need to have on top of that the distribution of three  momenta of the outgoing nucleon .",
    "since events are generated probabilistically one by one , we generate a random momentum from the local fermi sea , and this will generate an outgoing momentum @xmath19 . if it happens that @xmath20 ( the local fermi momentum ) then the event is pauli blocked , it is dismissed and another event is generated .",
    "thus , we have already the configuration of the final state after the first step : in this case just one nucleon produced in the point * r * of the nucleus with momentum @xmath21 . as with respect to having a proton and a neutron in the final state ,",
    "this is trivially done : for the cc case , the outgoing nucleon is a proton ( neutron ) for neutrino ( antineutrino ) induced processes , while for nc the reaction probability was already splitted into a proton and a neutron induced ones .",
    "then we simulate the trajectory of the ejected nucleon in its way out of the nucleus .",
    "we move the nucleon in finite length steps ( @xmath22 , the nucleon mean free path ) . at every new position we evaluate the probability of the nucleon colliding so it produces a new outgoing secondary nucleon .",
    "all of the ejected nucleons ( the primary one , and the possibly existing secondary ) are again propagated until they all leave the nucleus , all of them giving the same contribution to the differential cross section .    when a qe nucleon - nucleon collision is produced a random fermi sea nucleon momentum",
    "is selected .",
    "the new primary and secondary nucleon kinematics are selected according to experimental differential cross sections of free space nucleon - nucleon collision , conveniently modified in order to take into account the effects of medium polarization ( correlations ) and pauli blocking effects .",
    "the propagation of nucleons is simulated with a semiclassical approximation of nucleons moving in a nucleon - nucleus potential .",
    "this approximation was shown to be fairly accurate for nucleons with kinetic energies higher than @xmath23 mev in @xcite .",
    "the nucleons spectra produced by cc processes induced by muon neutrinos are shown in fig .  [",
    "fig : charged ] for argon . of course neutrinos only interact via cc with neutrons and would emit protons , but these primary protons interact strongly with the medium and collide with other nucleons which are also ejected . as a consequence",
    "there is a reduction of the flux of high energy protons but a large number of secondary nucleons , many of them neutrons , of lower energies appear .",
    "( upper panels ) and @xmath24 ( lower panels ) cross sections as a function of the kinetic energy of the final nucleon . left and right panels correspond to the emission of protons and neutrons respectively .",
    "the solid histogram shows results without fsi and the dashed one the full model . ]",
    "the energy distributions of nucleons emitted after a nc interaction are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : neut ] . our results without rescattering compare well with other calculations like those of @xcite .",
    "however , in these latter cases , which incorporate the nucleons final state interaction via the use of optical potentials , the main effect is to reduce the cross section at all energies instead of displacing the strength towards lower energies as we find .     at 500 mev",
    "( upper panels ) and 150 mev ( lower panels ) cross sections as a function of the kinetic energy of the final nucleon . left and right panels correspond to the emission of protons and neutrons respectively .",
    "the solid histogram shows results without fsi and the dashed one the full model . ]",
    "the ratio of proton to neutron quasielastic cross section could be very sensitive to the strange quark axial form factor of the nucleon , and thus to the @xmath25 parameter .",
    "our rescattering approach produces minor changes for light nuclei , because of the smaller average density , and for low energies because most secondary nucleons are below our 30mev cut .",
    "however , the sensitivity is larger for both heavier nuclei and for larger energies of the neutrinos as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : rat ]                      m.c .",
    "martinez , p. lava , n. jachowicz , j. ryckebusch , k. vantournhout and j.m .",
    "udias , arxiv : nucl - th/0505008 ; c.j .",
    "horowitz , h.c .",
    "kim , d.p .",
    "murdock and s. pollock , phys .",
    "c 48 ( 1993 ) 3078 ; b.i.s . van der ventel and j. piekarewicz , phys .",
    "c 69 ( 2004 ) 035501 ; a. meucci , c. giusti and f.d .",
    "pacati , nucl .",
    "phys . a 744 ( 2004 ) 307 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a previous model on inclusive charged - current quasi - elastic nuclear reactions @xcite is extended to include neutral- and charged - current nucleon emission reactions . </S>",
    "<S> the problem of outgoing nucleon propagation is treated by means of a monte carlo simulation .    , </S>"
  ]
}