{
  "article_text": [
    "experimental studies of the three  body system are particularly interesting as it has become possible to solve the schrdinger equation of the three  body system for both the ground and the continuum states",
    ". such three  body calculations , based on different techniques , are available from several groups @xcite .",
    "data for d ",
    "p elastic scattering , two , and three  body breakup , and radiative capture reactions ( or its inverse reaction , photo - disintegration ) now allow for a precise quantitative comparison with theory .    combined with these calculations the radiative capture reaction provides an especially attractive framework as the electromagnetic interaction is a well understood process .",
    "capture reactions in few ",
    "body systems have been studied for quite some time and provided , even at very low energy @xcite , valuable information on the dynamics in these systems . in the two  body system the cross section data at low energy indicated the importance of mesonic degrees of freedom @xcite and the forward angle cross section of the two  body photodisintegration",
    "could only be understood when accounting for relativistic effects @xcite",
    ".    the important role of of meson exchange currents ( mec ) can be observed in many electromagnetic observables .",
    "the electromagnetic form factors of the a=3 system as measured in elastic electron scattering @xcite or the electrodisintegration cross section of the two body system @xcite can only be understood when mec s are taken into account . in these observables mec s",
    "are intimately related to the nucleonic s ",
    "d transitions as they give effects of similar size , but opposite sign .",
    "thus , the quantitative study of mec  effects requires a precise knowledge of the nucleonic s  d transition .",
    "the effect of such transitions can be enhanced in measurements of polarization observables as the s ",
    "s amplitude , which usually dominates unpolarized cross sections , is strongly suppressed and allows for a study of the small amplitudes . based on the following arguments one can expect that measurements of polarization observables in capture reactions provide insight into the different roles played by nucleonic and mesonic degrees of freedom .    in the energy range of 10 - 50 mev",
    "the @xmath2capture process is dominated by the electric dipole transition ( e1 ) .",
    "although mec s can give large contributions to the e1-transition , they can be taken into account implicitly when performing calculations with operators derived using siegert s theorem .",
    "thus , due to the angular dependence of the e1-e1 contribution ( sin@xmath3 ) , polarization observables at medium range reaction angles ( @xmath4 ) are little affected by the explicit contribution of mec s . on the other hand mec s have to be calculated explicitly in the magnetic transitions , particularly m1 in which they may give contributions up to 50% @xcite .",
    "contributions of m1 and thus mec s are particularly large at small and large reaction angles . at these angles the e1-m1 interference term , in which the small m1 amplitude is enhanced via",
    "e1 becomes dominant .",
    "thus , angular distributions of polarization observables with sensitivities to both the electric and the magnetic transitions can be expected to offer excellent windows on small components of the interaction and provide a unique experimental test of mec s .",
    "measurements of polarization observables for the @xmath2capture reaction with adequate precision are rather scarce .",
    "difficulties associated with polarized beam and/or target production , and with the measurement of spin observables often led to experimental uncertainties which do not permit a significant check of theoretical predictions . although the techniques are well under control today , one can not expect a significant increase of the data base as the required experimental facilities are no longer at hand @xcite .",
    "a rather complete account of the existing data is given in the publication by anklin _",
    "@xcite which also discusses the results of our previous work in this area .    here we report on new measurements of vector and tensor analyzing powers of the @xmath5 capture reaction induced with a polarized deuteron beam . in the present experiment",
    "we have extended the measurements by anklin _",
    "_ in three ways .",
    "one extension concerns more extreme angles at a deuteron beam energy of 45  mev for a larger sensitivity to the magnetic transitions .",
    "a second extension concerns the measurement of a complete angular distribution of the polarization observables at a beam energy of 29  mev .",
    "this is particularly important for the tensor analyzing power a@xmath1 at intermediate angles as the beam energy dependence shows a maximum at 29  mev while at 45  mev it is close to zero ( see figure [ dpg_ayy_ed ] ) .",
    "as will be discussed in the last section the tensor analyzing power at these two energies has rather different sensitivities to the underlying physics . as a third extension we also measured the data of the deuteron vector analyzing power a@xmath0 at the same kinematical points .",
    "beam energy dependence of a@xmath1 at @xmath6deg .",
    "the data points are from .",
    "the dashed line represents the faddeev calculation by golak _",
    "@xcite , scaledwidth=49.0% ]    [ exp ]",
    "the experiment was performed at the philips injector cyclotron of the paul scherrer institute ( psi ) in villigen ( switzerland ) .",
    "it used a polarized deuteron beam which was prepared in the psi atomic beam ion source @xcite .",
    "the source was equipped with a 30k cold atomic beam dissociator , two sextupole fields to focus ( defocus ) the atomic electrons from @xmath7h with spin up ( down ) , a set of two strong ( sf1 , sf2 ) and one weak field radio frequency ( rf ) transition units to induce the nuclear polarization , and an electron  cyclotron resonance ( ecr ) ionizer .",
    "the rf  units selected transitions between different zeemann levels of the @xmath7h - atom hyperfine structure in an external magnetic field . depending on the combination of active rf  units",
    "the nominal nuclear vector and tensor polarization as listed in table [ tab : pol ] could be prepared . in the present experiment all five modes",
    "have been used , the source being cycled through them with a rate of 0.3  hz to minimize systematic errors .",
    ".[tab : pol ] polarized beam source modes and nominal polarization values .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     various systematic errors are accounted for . a relative 10% error is estimated for the background contribution . in addition , correlations between luminosities and polarization states could lead to false asymmetries . to determine a systematic error the asymmetries of two unpolarized runs with different current",
    "have been used to determine a false asymmetry due to different dead times and luminosities .",
    "the determined effect can be scaled to the differences in currents and dead times for different polarization states present during normal running conditions . a resulting systematic uncertainty of 0.00043 ( 0.00024 ) results due to current differences of 0.005(0.003 )",
    "na during the data taking at @xmath8=29(45 )  mev . including the uncertainty of the polarization determination the total systematic errors vary between 0.00044 and 0.00113 compared to the statistical errors from 0.00187 to 0.00470",
    "the present data together with previous data taken at the same deuteron energies are compared to three different recent calculations @xcite .",
    "the calculations are all exact in the sense that they provide a full solution of the schrdinger equation from a realistic nucleon ",
    "nucleon interaction for both the ground and continuum states .",
    "an exact treatment using the same hamiltonian for initial and final state is known to be essential for a successful description of polarization observables of the @xmath5 capture reaction .",
    "whereas for the description of the differential cross section the use of the born approximation leads to an underestimate of order 15% , the tensor analyzing power a@xmath1 is underpredicted by more than a factor of 2 .",
    "the importance of initial state interaction in these observables has been observed already in the calculation by j.  torre @xcite .",
    "more recently a calculation by a.c .",
    "fonseca and d.r .",
    "lehman @xcite confirmed that re - scattering effects in the initial state are crucial for a determination of polarization observables .",
    "the techniques applied in the calculations by the three groups are very different .",
    "the bochum ",
    "cracow group @xcite obtains the wave functions by solving the faddeev equations in a non  relativistic framework . in the calculation of the pisa group @xcite",
    "the wave functions are calculated using the pair  correlated hyperspherical harmonics method @xcite .",
    "both groups use the argonne v18 two  body potential @xcite as underlying nucleon ",
    "nucleon potential .",
    "in addition , the urbana ix three  body potential @xcite is also included by both groups . in the approach by the hannover group @xcite the three ",
    "particle scattering equations are calculated exactly with a chebyshev expansion of the two  baryon transition matrix .",
    "this approach employs the cd  bonn potential @xcite as the underlying two  body  potential .",
    "the three  nucleon  force ( 3bf ) is generated here via a coupled channel extension of cd  bonn which allows for a single nucleon transition to a static @xmath9 isobar . the cd ",
    "bonn + @xmath9 extension is as exact as cd  bonn as it is also fitted to the experimental two  nucleon data up to 350  mev @xcite .    in figure [ fig:1body ] the results of the three calculations for the analyzing powers at the energies of the experimental data",
    "are compared . in this comparison",
    "only one  body  currents are included in the calculations . in addition , the results of one calculation by skibinsky _",
    "et al . _ ( dash ) is shown which neglects the 3bf .",
    "the figures confirm that when accounting for one  body  currents only , the results are essentially the same .",
    "small deviations can be observed for the calculation which does not include a 3bf ( dash ) and for the calculation which includes the 3bf as a static @xmath9 isobar ( solid ) .",
    "thus , the effects of the 3bf are small but notable in a@xmath0 when a different 3bf  model is employed .",
    "figure [ fig:1body ] also shows the experimental results of the present work together with the results of @xcite and @xcite . whereas the results of the three experiments are in good agreement the comparison to the calculations shows a large discrepancy .",
    "as will be shown , the dominant cause of these deviations are the missing two  body  currents in the calculations .",
    "one should note that all the theoretical results have been folded with the acceptances of the experimental data of @xmath10 deg .    in calculations of capture and photodisintegration",
    "observables the dominant part of many  body ",
    "currents is usually included using the siegert theorem @xcite .",
    "the standard siegert theorem is formulated in a multipole expansion in which part of the transition currents can be replaced by the charge operator .",
    "alternatively is has been shown by golak _",
    "_ @xcite that in momentum space a multipole expansion of the current operator is not necessary ; this approach is applied in the calculations by skibinski",
    "_ whereas two body currents are implicitly included in the dominant part of the electric transitions , they are not accounted for in the magnetic transitions and a small part of the electric ones . in the calculation by skibinski _",
    "only the one  body  current is used in these latter parts of the transition .",
    "an alternative approach is used in which the @xmath11 and @xmath12exchange currents are taken into account explicitly using the riska prescription @xcite .         the effect of the two  body  currents is shown in figure [ fig:2body ] .",
    "the description of the data has largely improved which confirms the presence of large two ",
    "current effects .",
    "the solid lines give the results including the @xmath11 and @xmath12exchange currents explicitly whereas dashed lines show the results from the siegert approach .",
    "in general , the description of the data is much better with the explicit treatment of the exchange currents .",
    "this suggests that magnetic transitions , for which mec s are not accounted for in the siegert approach , are a relevant part of the transition .",
    "as expected , this holds particularly for the wings of the a@xmath1 data . in the intermediate angular range , which is dominated by the e1transition",
    ", one would expect the siegert calculation , which implicitly accounts for mec s , to be the more successful approach .",
    "however , only the a@xmath1 data at the 45  mev are described well .",
    "this is surprising as these data are particularly sensitive to small ingredients of the calculations .",
    "thus , one should conclude that only a more complete explicit account of the two  body  currents can improve the description of the data .",
    "such a more complete approach for many body currents has been employed by the pisa group .",
    "this calculation includes @xmath11 , @xmath12 , @xmath13 , and @xmath14exchange currents consistent with the nn  potential as well as the currents associated with the @xmath15 and @xmath16 transition mechanisms and with the excitation of intermediate @xmath9resonances .",
    "one should note that the @xmath15 and @xmath16 terms are not fitted to data but used with the standard coupling constants@xcite .",
    "in addition , these terms give very minor effects .",
    "an alternative approach to the one by skibinski _",
    "_ to derive the exchange currents is employed @xcite .",
    "the currents are strictly consistent with the interaction potential .",
    "thus , three  body ",
    "currents are included for calculations with the urbana ix three  body potential .",
    "an essential aspect of the calculation is that the current conservation relation is satisfied in all calculations .",
    "an additional improvement of the calculations by marcucci et al is the inclusion of the point coulomb interaction . to account for the coulomb interaction between the two protons is straightforward in these calculations as they are performed in configuration space .",
    "the effect is small for the analyzing powers of the present work but , as will be discussed below it improves the comparison between data and calculation .",
    "figure [ fig:3body ] shows the comparison of the data with these theoretical results .",
    "in particular the description of the a@xmath0 data for both energies improved with this approach in most of the angular region . if three  body ",
    "current effects are included the description also agrees with the a@xmath1 data at 30  mev but still shows deviations at 45  mev . in particular , the fall  off of the calculations in a@xmath1 at 45  mev at backward angles can not be removed by many  body  currents . deviations from the data are also present at very backward angles for the a@xmath0 data .",
    "this suggests that additional effects are relevant for a complete description of the data .",
    "a similar discrepancy was a long standing puzzle in the 0 deg cross section of the _ two  body _ photodisintegration because relativistic effects had been considered unimportant at these low energies .",
    "cambi , mosconi , and ricci @xcite solved this puzzle demonstrating the importance of the relativistic spin  orbit contribution to explain the discrepancies between data and calculations .    in a @xmath17expansion of the current operator with @xmath18 and @xmath19 the nucleon momentum and mass , relativistic effects of order @xmath20 are included in the calculation by deltuva _",
    "the two  body currents are included in this calculation using the siegert approach without the long  wavelength approximation often applied .",
    "in contrast to the calculation by skibinski , explicit one and two  body currents in the non  siegert parts are also accounted for .",
    "in addition to relativistic effects , also this calculation includes the coulomb interaction between the two protons @xcite . for calculations performed in momentum space",
    "the coulomb potential is usually omitted due to convergence difficulties . to include it a screened coulomb potential",
    "is used , corrected for the unscreened limit using a renormalization procedure . a recent comparison with the calculations of the pisa ",
    "group discussed above demonstrates the reliability of the momentum space calculation@xcite .",
    "figure [ fig : rel_coul ] shows the data in comparison with the calculations by deltuva _",
    "et al . _ with this calculation the data can be reproduced over most of the angular range .",
    "the dotted line represents the results without relativistic and coulomb effects .",
    "the dashed line shows the results with relativistic corrections included and the results shown with the solid line include also the coulomb interaction .",
    "in particular the backward angle fall  off of a@xmath1 can be removed with the relativistic spin  orbit effect .",
    "in addition , also the backward angle deviations of the non  relativistic calculations in a@xmath0 are improved .",
    "precise deuteron vector analyzing powers , a@xmath0 , and tensor analyzing powers , a@xmath1 , have been measured for the @xmath2capture reaction at two incident deuteron energies .",
    "the energies have been chosen in order to emphazise different dynamical effects .",
    "a@xmath1 for intermediate angles shows a maximum at 29  mev , whereas it crosses zero around 45  mev .",
    "the data have been compared to modern three  body calculations from three different groups @xcite .",
    "although the groups employ very different techniques to compute the wave functions for ground and continuum states , the computed polarization observables agree very well with each other when only one  body  currents are included",
    ". however , large discrepancies are present between such calculations and the data .",
    "it has been shown , that the dominant part of this discrepancy can be corrected for accounting for two and three  body  currents .",
    "however , it could also be shown that relativistic effects and the coulomb interaction between the protons play a role .",
    "the agreement between calculation and data in certain angular ranges improves significantly when such effects are included .    in summary ,",
    "the present precision data represent a challenging testing ground for `` state  of  the art '' three  body calculations . for a complete description of the data two and three  body currents as well as relativistic and coulomb effects",
    "have to be taken into account . due to their precision",
    "the data are very sensitive to various small effects which usually are unobservable in cross section data .",
    "they clearly demonstrate the power of the combination of polarization data with the electromagnetic process @xcite .",
    "we would like to thank a. deltuva , p. sauer , w. glckle , j. golak , r. skibinski , h. witala , a. kievsky , l.e .",
    "marcucci , and m. vivani , for providing us with the various calculations and many valuable discussions .",
    "this work was supported by the schweizerische nationalfonds .",
    "h.  anklin , l.j .",
    "de  bever , s.  buttazzoni , a.  honegger , j.  jourdan , g.  kubon , t.  petitjean , l.m .",
    "qin , i.  sick , ph .",
    "steiner , m.  zeier , j.  zhao , b.  zihlmann , j.  golak , h.  witaa , w.  glckle , and h.  kamada .",
    ", 636:189 , 1998 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> precise measurements of the deuteron vector analyzing power a@xmath0 and the tensor analyzing power a@xmath1 of the @xmath2capture reaction have been performed at deuteron energies of 29  mev and 45  mev . </S>",
    "<S> the data have been compared to theoretical state  of  the  art calculations available today . due to the large sensitivity of polarization observables and the precision of the data light </S>",
    "<S> could be shed on small effects present in the dynamics of the reaction . </S>"
  ]
}