{
  "article_text": [
    "i have been asked to give an critical overview on the experimental results shown in the conference with a emphasis of what has been learned and the challenges that are ahead in trying to understand the physics of the strongly interacting quark - gluon plasma .",
    "i will not try to summarize all of the results presented , rather i will concentrate primarily on rhic data from this conference . throughout this summary",
    ", i will periodically review some of the previous results for those not familiar with the present state of the field @xcite .    as we came into this conference we knew several things :    * the system created in central heavy ion collisions at rhic is thermally and chemically equilibrated with thermalization times less than 2 fm / c . *",
    "the energy density at thermalization is very high , greater than 10 gev/@xmath0 . *",
    "the energy loss of fast partons is large . *",
    "the viscosity / entropy is very low , perhaps approaching that of a perfect fluid@xcite .",
    "this basic picture has been stable for the past year .",
    "i will refer to the created system as a sqgp ( strongly interacting quark gluon plasma ) .",
    "much of the data presented in this conference has reinforced these basic ideas .",
    "in addition some important theoretical insights have been gained , some of which will be mentioned in this review .",
    "rhic is unique in its ability to accelerate a variety of nuclear species over a large range of energies - @xmath120 gev center of mass to 200 gev center of mass .",
    "the dedicated nature of the machine together with its ensemble of 4 experiments has given an unprecedented variety of data sets .",
    "new results from one experiment , can quickly be confirmed and checked by others . the capabilities of the 4 detectors are now being well utilized giving results on an extraordinary variety of particle types - with multi - strange baryons and charmed particles coming into the mainstream .",
    "we are studying a dynamically evolving bulk system , and experimental signatures give information on different times of the collision history . to set the context , fig .",
    "[ fig : qgphistory ] shows a cartoon of the evolution of the system with various stages as follows :    region 1 : : :    the earliest moments of the collision where high momentum probes are    formed .",
    "this early phase of the collision can be described by    saturated parton functions - the colored glass condensate .",
    "region 2 : : :    thermalization is reached in region 2 at @xmath10.6 fm .",
    "region 3 : : :    the era of the sqgp where much of the elliptic flow developers .",
    "fast    partons loose most of their energy during this portion of the    collision .",
    "region 4 : : :    the mixed phase region .",
    "recent lattice calculations indicate that the    phase transition very likely a cross over , however , the temperature    range over which the transition occurs is narrow , @xmath120    mev , hence the for experimental concerns , the transition can be    assumed to be a first order transition .",
    "it is this era where    hadronization takes place - presumably via recombination .",
    "region 5 : : :    the era of hadrons , where rescattering and freezeout occur .",
    "it is important to note that we have assumed a partonic phase for regions 1 - 4 .",
    "all reasonable explanations of the data demand this .",
    "as we shall see , further data continues to bear this out .",
    "the phenomena of parton energy loss or `` jet quenching '' is perhaps the most well known result from rhic .",
    "high momentum hadrons with p@xmath2 4 gev / c are suppressed by a factor of 5 in central au+au collisions , relative to pp collisions when scaled by the number of binary collisions .",
    "fast partons , the source of high momentum hadrons , are produced very early in the collision ( region 1 in fig .",
    "[ fig : qgphistory ] ) , and penetrate through the created matter and fragment into hadrons .",
    "quarks and gluons loose energy copiously in the medium because of their color charge ( primarily in region 3 ) . to quantify the energy loss ,",
    "we define @xmath3 where @xmath4 is the number of binary collisions calculated from a glauber model in auau collisions ; @xmath5 and @xmath6 are the differential yields observed in auau and pp collisions respectively",
    ". this ratio should be unity if binary scaling holds .",
    "[ fig : jetquench](a ) shows the ratio r@xmath7 as measured by the phenix collaboration for direct photons , @xmath8 s and @xmath9 s in central au+au collisions .",
    "direct photons show a ratio consistent with unity as expected since they suffer only a negligible amount of energy loss .",
    "however both @xmath10 and now @xmath11 are shown to be suppressed by a factor of 4 - 5 .",
    "calculations done assuming loss by gluon radiation give gluon densities of @xmath12@xmath11000 or energy densities of 10 - 15 gev/@xmath0 at the time of initial thermalization@xcite .",
    "we will see that this is consistent with other methods of calculating the initial energy density .",
    "this should be compared with the expected critical energy density from lattice gauge calculations of about 0.6 gev/@xmath0 @xcite .",
    "it is important to note here , that the energy loss calculations do not require a deconfined medium , but depend only on the energy density .",
    "dokshitzer and kharzeev have shown that for heavy quarks , such as charm or bottom , gluon radiation in a conical region around the momentum vector of the quark would be suppressed thus limiting the energy loss of heavy quarks@xcite .",
    "the effect could be rather significant ; a factor of @xmath12 depending on the energy of the quark .",
    "both phenix and star have looked at so called `` non - photonic '' electrons , i.e. electrons primarily from the prompt decay of heavy quarks . they have observed a unexpectedly large suppression of such electrons fig .",
    "[ fig : jetquench](b ) @xcite .",
    "this has led to a discussion of whether gluon radiative energy loss is responsible for the entire suppression of high momentum hadrons , or whether there may be additional mechanisms such as collisional energy loss@xcite@xcite .",
    "however , as can be seen in the figure , a reasonable fit can be made to the data using the so called bdmps theory with values of @xmath13 between 4 and 14 gev@xmath14/fm .",
    "the higher value of 14 gev@xmath14/fm corresponds an unrealistically high energy density .",
    "since these measurements have been made using electrons , both c and b mesons contribute ; the energy loss for b quarks is considerably less than for c quarks and it will be critical for experiments to examine the suppression patterns separately for charm and bottom hadrons , in order to make a accurate measurement of the energy loss and thus the energy density .    [",
    "cols=\"^,^ \" , ]",
    "what are the new things we have learned from the data presented at this conference ?    * heavy quark energy loss is now well established , as both star and phenix have observed the suppression of high momentum `` non - photonic '' electrons .",
    "critical measurements are left to be made in which the contribution from charm and bottom quarks can be separated .",
    "* charm quarks flow , giving us further evidence that the viscosity is small and that interactions are large .",
    "* recombination continues to find experimental support .",
    "all particles seem to obey constituent quark scaling in both the baryon to meson ratios as well as the elliptic flow .",
    "in addition star has showed us some evidence for `` fine structure '' in the v@xmath15/n plots which are consistent with theoretical ideas of dressed `` quasi quarks '' being the degrees of freedom of the sqgp . *",
    "phenix has shown the suppression of heavy quarks in dau collisions at forward rapidity as predicted by cgc models .",
    "the field of relativistic heavy ions is blooming .",
    "we have begun to understand some things , but there is a great deal left to do .",
    "most of our conclusions remain rather qualitative in nature - we would like more quantitative results . in order for this to happen",
    "both theorists and experimentalist must work together on common questions .",
    "for instance - we know now that this viscosity is small - but exactly _ how small ? ?",
    "with upgraded detectors and an expected increase in luminosity for rhic , experimentalists will need to measure the elliptic flow of identified charm and bottom mesons .",
    "theorists will need to be able to associate these results with a numerical viscosity of the medium .",
    "_    there are broader questions as well .",
    "the phase transition itself remains elusive - i.e. we would like to see direct evidence of deconfinement and/or chiral symmetry restoration , measure the transition temperature , and find the critical point .",
    "in closing - i would like to reiterate one major advance i think we have seen in this conference - and that is , that we are beginning to get some idea of what the degrees of freedom are of the sqgp .",
    "all experimental evidence seems to point to `` quasi - quarks '' ( for lack of a better name ) .",
    "lattice measurements of susceptibilities seem to confirm this .",
    "we must seek to understand these degrees of freedom - in particular- we would like to know whether these degrees of freedom somehow are connected to the fact that the stuff we have created at rhic is so strongly interacting .",
    "10      policastro , g. and son , d. t. and starinets , a. o. , prl 87 , 081601 , hep - th/0104066 ; kovtun , p. and son , d. t. and starinets , a. o. , prl 94 , 111601 , hep - th/0405231 .",
    "one of the most interesting developments has been the use of string theory and the ads / cft correspondence to solve for the viscosity divided by the entropy density for a super - symmetric version of `` qcd '' .",
    "it is conjectured that the value of the viscosity obtained in this calculation is a lower bound for may thermal quantum field theory - i.e. that the fluid is the most perfect fluid possible .",
    "r. j. fries , b. muller , c. nonaka , s. a. bass , phys .",
    "c68 ( 2003 ) 044902 .",
    "r. c. hwa , c. b. yang , phys .",
    "c70 ( 2004 ) 024905 .",
    "r. c. hwa , c. b. yang , phys .",
    "c67 ( 2003 ) 034902 .",
    "v. greco , c. m. ko , p. levai , phys .",
    "( 2003 ) 202302 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> i will present an overview of what was learned from the experimental results presented at strange quark matter 2006 concentrating primarily on rhic data . </S>"
  ]
}