{
  "article_text": [
    "total and differential cross sections for the reaction @xmath1 have been measured with high accuracy at pion energies above 100  mev .",
    "currently , experimental efforts in this energy range are aimed at measuring spin dependent observables .",
    "the situation at pion energies below 100  mev is less complete , especially for energies of a few tens of mev@xcite .",
    "the disagreement between the experimental data for the total cross section in some cases exceeds 20% , much larger than the quoted uncertainties .",
    "the experimental data show a deviation from smooth behavior in the total cross section of the reaction @xmath2 close to @xmath3 ( @xmath4)@xcite . more recent measurements of the partial total cross section for the inverse reaction at saturne have verified this effect@xcite . in a recent experiment of the dubna - gatchina group on pion absorption on carbon@xcite a dip in the energy dependence of the quasi - deuteron component of absorption near @xmath5=28  mev has been observed .",
    "the measurements of pion absorption on the deuteron@xcite performed by the same group also indicated possible structure at a pion energy of 30  mev .",
    "a more recent experiment at lampf@xcite did not observe any dip on carbon , but these data suggest a change in the angular distribution of protons at pion energies near 25  mev .",
    "some possible alternative explanations of the structure in this energy range are given in ref.@xcite .",
    "one of them attributed the structure to the excitation of a diproton resonance in the @xmath6 state .",
    "however , these experiments are not accurate enough to reach a conclusion concerning the structure under the discussion .",
    "a satisfactory solution fitting the available database has not been found in partial wave analysis , suggesting underlying systematic problems with the data base .",
    "the experiment described here was intended to resolve the discrepancies in existing data and to verify the observed structure in the excitation function of pion absorption on the deuteron at low pion energies .",
    "the differential and total cross sections of the @xmath7 reaction have been measured with fine steps in incident pion energy .",
    "the experiment was performed at the low energy pion channel ( lep ) of the clinton p.  anderson meson physics facility ( lampf ) .",
    "positive pions with energies of 21 , 23 , 25 , 26 , 27 , 28 , 29 , 30 , 31 , 33 , 35 , 37 , 39 , 41 and 45  mev were used .",
    "the pion beam had an average intensity of a few 10@xmath8/sec , allowing the beam particles to be counted while not overloading the bgo detectors .",
    "the pion fraction varied from 78% for 45  mev beam to 33% for 21  mev beam .",
    "the momentum bite of the lep channel was set to 1% for the highest energies and increased to 4% for the lowest ones in order to increase the pion flux .",
    "the target was composed of cd@xmath9 with a cross sectional area of @xmath10 and an areal density of 0.469  g/@xmath11 .",
    "it was attached to a thin paper pipe and placed in the center of the bgo ball .",
    "the supporting pipe was aligned along the beam axis .",
    "the diameter of the pipe was big enough to keep its walls out of the beam .",
    "a 0.25-mm - thick plastic scintillator s1 with a cross section of @xmath12 was located just before the target .",
    "downstream of the target a rectangular array of nine csi scintillators da1da9 was preceded by a 10-mm - thick plastic scintillator , s2 .",
    "da1da9 and s2 could be used for the detection of the most forward going reaction products as well as for a determination of beam composition . in this experiment only the central detector , da5 , of the array was used . a coincidence between s1 and the central detector , da5 , of the downstream array",
    "was used as a beam monitor .",
    "every 1000th beam event ( event triggered by a @xmath13 coincidence ) was read out for further analysis to determine the pion fraction which was needed for absolute normalization of the cross sections .",
    "a large solid angle detector , the lampf bgo ball , was used to detect the reaction products in this study .",
    "detailed information on the bgo ball can be found in ref . .",
    "the bgo ball consists of 30 phoswich detectors .",
    "the detectors of the array were of pentagonal and hexagonal shape and tightly packed to form a truncated icosahedron of 32 sides .",
    "two of the 32 sides are opened for the beam entry and exit .",
    "the detectors were distributed about an inner radius of 6.1  cm from the center of the array to the center of each crystal face , and were arranged in six groups centered at laboratory scattering angles of @xmath14 , and @xmath15 .",
    "each detector had a solid angle of about @xmath16 sr and was supported in a 0.5-mm - thick electro - formed nickel can which had a 0.05-mm - thick entrance window .",
    "each detector consisted a 3-mm - thick ne102 plastic scintillator optically coupled to the front of a 5.6-cm - thick bismuth germanate ( bgo ) crystal , with a 7.62-cm - diameter photomultiplier tube on the back . since the decay constant of the bgo scintillator is much longer than that of the plastic scintillator ( 250  ns vs 1.5  ns ) , the anode signal was time sliced to provide both @xmath17 ( fast ) and @xmath18 ( slow ) signals for charged particle identification ( pions , protons , deuterons , etc . ) , and for identification of neutrons and gamma rays .",
    "the crystals were thick enough to stop up to 185-mev protons and 90-mev pions .",
    "the time resolution of the detectors was about 1  ns , sufficient to eliminate events with hits from different beam bursts ( the lampf beam has a 5-ns microstructure ) .",
    "the light output of bgo scintillator depends significantly on the temperature of bgo material@xcite . to minimize fluctuations in temperature of the bgo",
    ", a tent - like structure was built to isolate the bgo ball from its surroundings .",
    "the event trigger consisted of a coincidence between the target detector , s1 , and at least one bgo crystal in anti - coincidence with da5 .",
    "the raw data for each event contains information about the energy deposited in the plastic and the bgo for all detectors and timing information with respect to the beam counter . in the first step of the analysis a time gate",
    "was applied to all of the signals to remove accidentals from further analysis .",
    "the next step was the determination and application of the constants used for unmixing the @xmath19 information from the phoswich detectors .",
    "the signal from each phoswich detector was integrated in two different adc channels with different time gates , 50 and 250  ns long .",
    "the @xmath20 and @xmath18 information was separated using :    @xmath21    @xmath22    where @xmath23 and @xmath24 represent the raw data from the adc s with the short and long gates , respectively , and @xmath25 , @xmath26 are the coefficients for conversion of raw adc data to energy in mev .",
    "the relative fraction of a long signal in a short gate and vice versa are given by the mixing parameters , @xmath27 and @xmath28 , respectively .",
    "the @xmath29 and offsets , @xmath30 , were determined using a least square fit for the events along @xmath17 and @xmath18 axes , where only one component of a signal ( short or long ) exists .",
    "these are produced by charge particles which stop in the plastic and leave a @xmath17 with no @xmath18 signal , or by neutral particles which interact in the bgo and leave a @xmath18 with no @xmath17 signal .",
    "an example of a @xmath31 distribution from a phoswich is shown in fig .",
    "one can clearly see regions corresponding to protons and pions .",
    "the outlined region along the @xmath18 axis is due to neutral particles and the outlined region along the @xmath17 axis is due to short range charged particles stopped in the plastic scintillator .",
    "an initial energy calibration of the bgo ball ( @xmath25 and @xmath26 ) was made by using two proton coincidences from the @xmath32 reaction .",
    "an alternate method used elastically scattered pions from @xmath33 .",
    "pions from this reaction give a strong peak ( fig .",
    "[ ede ] ) with well defined energy for each ring of detectors in the bgo ball .",
    "this eliminated the strong kinematic energy dependence in the former procedure .",
    "use of the cd@xmath9 as a target and a single hit trigger made this possible .",
    "the @xmath17 and @xmath18 gains were fitted continuously during data taking and off - line data analysis .",
    "this continuous stabilization was important because of instability in the bgo ball detectors .",
    "the parameters @xmath29 and @xmath30 also require continuous stabilization because both the gain and the decay constant of the bgo scintillator is temperature dependent .",
    "we used the following stabilization algorithm .",
    "for sequential subsets of raw events the complete set of parameters was fitted .",
    "the weighted average of old and new values of the parameters was used for the next subset of events .",
    "this procedure was completely automated .",
    "[ pp ] ( described below ) shows the energy resolution and accuracy of this calibration procedure .",
    "the width of the two proton total energy peak from the @xmath34 reaction , summed over entire ball is @xmath35 mev .",
    "after the system has been calibrated one can easily determine the event multiplicity , identify detected particles and measure their energies .",
    "we selected events using following criteria :    * the multiplicity must be equal 2 ; * both particles must be protons ; and * the opening angle between the two protons and their total energy must satisfy the kinematics of the reaction @xmath36 .    fig .",
    "[ pp ] is the energy spectrum for two proton events .",
    "the events are summed over all kinematically allowed combinations of bgo ball detectors .",
    "the narrow peak at the higher energy corresponds to the reaction @xmath36 .",
    "the lower energy broad peak with a long tail results from pion absorption on carbon .",
    "one observes that there is practically no background under the @xmath36 reaction peak .",
    "measurements with no target but with the supporting pipe in its normal position and with a pure carbon target show that the background under the peak does not exceed 0.1% so no background subtraction was necessary .      because of the low beam flux in this experiment it was possible to directly count the beam particles . pulse height and timing",
    "information from s1 , s2 and da5 detectors was used to determine the pion fraction .",
    "first , a cut was placed on the time between s1 and s2 to eliminate accidental coincidences between particles from different beam bursts .",
    "another cut was applied to a two dimensional @xmath37 distribution ( pulse height from s2 and da5 ) to eliminate positrons . the resulting pulse height spectrum from s2",
    "is shown in fig .",
    "the left peak corresponds to muons , the right one to pions .",
    "two modified moyal functions:@xcite    @xmath38    one for pions and one for muons , were fitted to the energy loss distribution . here",
    "@xmath18 is the energy loss in s2 and @xmath39 are adjusted parameters .",
    "the pion distribution was integrated to obtain the pion fraction . at the two lowest energies ( 21  mev and 23  mev ) some pions loose all their energy in s2 and",
    "do not hit da5 and the corresponding pion peak has a different , and more complicated shape . in this case",
    "only the muon peak was fitted and the pion fraction was determined by subtracting the muon fraction from the integral number of beam particles . a monte carlo simulation of beam particles passing through the setup based on the geant code@xcite has been done .",
    "the corrections for energy losses , straggling , multiple scattering and decay were calculated from this simulation .",
    "the resulting correction to the total number of beam pions is 7% for the highest beam energy and 44% for the lowest one . for beam energies of 21 and 23  mev",
    "this correction accounts for pions , which passed through the target but did not hit da5 and were lost from the beam trigger .",
    "this simulation also was used for calculation of the pion energy in the center of a target .",
    "the uncertainty in the number of beam pions , mainly due to fitting errors , is 3  5% , with the contribution from the statistical error less than 1% .",
    "the efficiency was calculated using a monte carlo code which incorporates the actual geometry of the experimental setup .",
    "the efficiency accounts for the effective solid angle ( geometrical solid angle reduced by the requirement of both protons detection ) , reaction losses , and dead time .",
    "the effective solid angles for all kinematically allowed pairs of the detectors have been calculated .",
    "the missing solid angle due to the nickel cans surrounding the crystals is about 6% .",
    "reaction loss correction due to the interaction of protons with the bgo were obtained using data from ref .",
    "the typical value of this correction is 10% .",
    "finally , the data were corrected for dead time .",
    "a typical value of the dead time in this experiment was 5% .",
    "we estimate the total uncertainty in the efficiency of the setup is about 5% .",
    "the differential cross section has been calculated for the selected events at each specific scattering angle .",
    "the data for the backward angles were translated to the forward hemisphere since the angular distribution in the center of mass frame is symmetrical around @xmath40 due to indistinguishability of the two protons .",
    "the resulting differential cross sections are presented in table [ tdsig ] . to obtain the total error",
    ", we added the statistical and normalization errors in quadrature .",
    "an overall systematic uncertainty of about 5% in the efficiency calculation is not included in the total error .",
    "this affects the global normalization of all 90 differential cross section points and does not change their relative value .",
    "we fitted the cross sections using a simple parameterization given by the legendre polynomial series :    @xmath41    at each energy we used only the statistical errors of the cross sections but not the normalization error because it does not change the relative shape of the angular distribution .",
    "the total cross sections were determined by :    @xmath42    using the parameterization of eq .",
    "( [ leg ] ) .",
    "the integration over @xmath43 instead of @xmath44 is necessary because there are two indistinguishable protons in the final state .",
    "the fitted coefficients , total cross sections , and @xmath45 are presented in table [ tsgt ] .",
    "errors for @xmath46 and @xmath47 are obtained from the fit . for the total cross section errors we added the normalization errors in quadrature .",
    "overall systematic uncertainty of 5% is not included for the same reason as for differential cross section .",
    "the differential cross sections measured in this experiment are plotted in fig .",
    "solid lines show the best fit results with eq .",
    "( [ leg ] ) .",
    "the results listed in table  [ tsgt ] show that only s- and p- pionic waves are important in this energy region . the absence of a need for higher partial waves agrees with previous measurements@xcite .",
    "fixed angle excitation functions are presented in fig .",
    "[ dsigr ] .",
    "[ a2a0 ] shows the behavior of the angular distribution as a function of energy by plotting the ratio of the coefficients @xmath47 to @xmath46 .",
    "the shape of the angular distribution changes smoothly with pion energy .",
    "no structure , within the accuracy of the experiment , is observed in the differential cross section as a function of energy .",
    "the total cross section is presented in fig .",
    "[ sgt ] along with the rest of the world s data .",
    "the current data follows the general trends .",
    "the biggest disagreement in the total cross section data , which existed around @xmath48  mev is resolved by the new data .",
    "we compared our cross sections with the predictions of the recent partial wave analysis of ref .",
    "the new vpi solution , sm95 , that includes the current data is compared with the previous sp94 results which do not include these data .",
    "table  [ tab3 ] and figs .",
    "[ dsigr],[sgt ] show the level of agreement between or data and the phase shift fits .",
    "the normalization factor averaged over all 15 energies are 1.04 and 1.01 for sp94 and sm95 solutions respectively .",
    "the values of the normalization factors for both solutions show that our estimate of systematic uncertainties is reasonable .",
    "table  [ tab4 ] presents a comparison of our data with other partial wave analysis .",
    "the recent vpi results , which include our data set , give better agreement than the previous results by the queen mary college group ( 9    256  mev )  @xcite and by the hiroshima university group ( 6    256  mev )  @xcite . the good agreement between the predictions of sp94 and recent sm95 vpi solutions with the experimental data",
    "support the absence of any anomalous behavior of the cross sections in this energy region within the accuracy of the present experimental results .",
    "we have presented new data on the total and differential cross section for the reaction @xmath2 for pion energies from 18  mev to 44  mev . in this experiment ,",
    "90 experimental data points for the differential cross section and 15 points for the total cross section have been measured with the same systematic uncertainty .",
    "the number of the experimental data points in this energy range is almost doubled by these results .",
    "the data generally follow the trends of previous results and are in a good agreement with the recent sm95 solution of the vpi partial wave analysis . the previous disagreement in total cross section data",
    "is resolved by this experiment .",
    "we do not observe any structure either in total cross section or in differential cross section .",
    "the authors wish to acknowledge valuable discussions with r.  a.  arndt , r.  a.  giannelli , r.  d.  ransome , and b.  g.  ritchie .",
    "this work was supported in part by russian fundamental research foundation grant 93 - 02 - 3995 and by the u.s .",
    "department of energy .",
    "i.  i.  strakovsky and e.  a.  pasyuk , in : _",
    "`` experimental program of the investigations at inst .",
    "moscow meson factory '' _ ( proc . of 4th",
    "all  union seminar on experimental program of investigations at inr moscow meson factory , 1985 ) moscow , russia : institute for nuclear research press , 1986 , p.  241 .",
    "j.  saudinos , b.  bonin , j - cl .",
    "duchazeaubeneix , j - cl .",
    "faivre , m.  garson , d.  legrand , m.  rouger , l.  antonuk , a.  boudard , j.  arvieux , and g.  gaillard , in : _ proc . of int .",
    "workshop on nucl . phys . in gev region , kek , nov .  1315 , 1984 _ , kek report 84 - 20 , 1985 , p.  228 ; nouvelles de saturne * 10 * , 25 ( 1985 ) .",
    "k.  akimov , m.  g.  gornov , m.  i.  gostkin , yu .",
    "b.  gurov , i.  i.  haysak , s.  p.  kruglov , s.  i.  merzlyakov , k.  o.  oganesyan , e.  a.  pasyuk , s.  yu .  porokhovoy , a.  i.  rudenko , a.  v.  shiskov , and i.  i.  strakovsky , nucl .",
    "* a451 * , 433 ( 1992 ) .",
    "s.  i.  gogolev , m.  g.  gornov , m.  i.  gostkin , yu .",
    "b.  gurov , i.  i.  haysak , s.  p.  kruglov , s.  i.  merzlyakov , k.  o.  oganesyan , e.  a.  pasyuk , s.  yu .  porokhovoy , a.  i.  rudenko , and i.  i.  strakovsky , phys .",
    "* b300 * , 24 ( 1993 ) .",
    "r.  d.  ransome , v.  p.  cupps , s.  dawson , r.  w.fergerson , a.  green , c.  l.  morris , j.  a.  mcgill , j.  r.  comfort , b.  g.  ritchie , j.  tinsley , j.  d.  zumbro , r.  a.  loveman , p.  c.  gugelot , d.  l.  watson , and c.  fred  moore , phys .",
    "64 * , 372 ( 1990 ) ; phys .  rev . *",
    "c 42 * , 1500 ( 1990 ) .",
    "r.  d.  ransome , in _ pion - nucleus physics : future directions and new facilities at lampf _ ,",
    "proceedings of the los alamos conference on pion - nucleus physics , aip conf .",
    "proc . * 163 * , edited by r.  j.  peterson and d.  d.  strottman ( aip , new york , 1988 ) p.  270 .",
    "a.  zucchatti , p.  levi  sandri , c.  schaerf , a.  a.  cowley , j.  v.  pilcher , l.  mazzaschi , m.  anghinolfi , n.  bianchi , l.  casano , p.  corvisiero , a.  dangelo , e.  de  sancctis , g.  gervino , b.  girolami , v.  lucherini , v.  mokeev , v.  muccifora , p.  picozza , e.  polli , a.  r.  reolon , g.  ricco , m.  ripani , p.  rossi , m.  sanzone , and m.  taiuti , nucl .",
    "instr.&meth . in phys",
    "* a321 * , 219 ( 1992 ) .",
    "b.  g.  ritchie , r.  d.  edge , d.  j.  malbrough , b.  m.  preedom , f.  e.  bertrand , e.  e.  gross , f.  e.  obenshain , j.  r.  wu , m.  blecher , k.  gotow , r.  l.  burman , r.  carlini , m.  e.  hamm , m.  j.  leitch , and m.  a.  moinester , phys .",
    "* c  24 * , 552 ( 1981 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a study of the reaction @xmath0 has been performed in the energy range of 18  44  mev . </S>",
    "<S> total cross sections and differential cross sections at six angles have been measured at 15 energies with an energy increment of 1  2  mev . </S>",
    "<S> this is the most systematic data set in this energy range . </S>",
    "<S> no structure in the energy dependence of the cross section has been observed within the accuracy of this experiment . </S>"
  ]
}