{
  "article_text": [
    "according to the bible , since the tower of babylon was destroyed , humans speak numerous ( presently nearly @xmath0 ) different languages . many of these face extinction , and a few new ones may arise . abrams and",
    "strogatz @xcite described the competition between two languages by simple differential equations averaging over all people , an approximation criticized in this granada seminar by droz .",
    "patriarca and leppnen @xcite applied these methods to a square lattice , with one language favoured in one half and the other language in the other half .",
    "other models averaging over many people were published by pagel @xcite and briscoe @xcite .",
    "two agent - based models , with each person simulated separately , were proposed independently in @xcite , using bit - strings as is customary for biological species @xcite .",
    "we shortly review here these agent - based models ; a longer review is given elsewhere @xcite .    in @xcite ,",
    "a language is given by a bit - string such that each different bit - string like 0011 and 1000 represents a different language ; this model thus simulates many languages . in the alternative model @xcite for only two languages , the left part of the bit - string correponds to one and the right part to the other language",
    "; then a person with bit - string 0011 speaks the second language well , and the first not at all , while 1000 speaks the first language badly , and the second not at all .",
    "we will later see how a re - interpretation gives good agreement between these models .",
    "now we concentrate on the model of @xcite .",
    "fig.1a shows the present histogram of the sizes of human languages , where the size is the number of people speaking mainly this language @xcite .",
    "we see roughly a log - normal distribution , with an enhanced number at small sizes .",
    "fig.1b shows a simulation made as follows :    at each time step @xmath1 we determine first the fraction @xmath2 of people speaking language @xmath3 .",
    "people flee from rare languages by selecting with probability @xmath4 the language of one randomly selected person from the @xmath5 survivors .",
    "( in @xcite a flight probability @xmath6 was simulated instead . )",
    "then everybody dies with verhulst probability @xmath7 due to overpopulation .",
    "the survivors produce one child each , which learns the language of the parent except that with probability @xmath8 one of the @xmath9 bits in the bit - string is toggled .",
    "we see that the simulation of fig.1b recovers the deviation from a log - normal distribution , which would be a parabola in these log - log plots . on the computer",
    "we could simulate more languages than in reality but not as many people as live now on earth .    for low mutation probabilities @xmath10",
    ", nearly everybody speaks one language ( which in reality may correspond to the alphabet now in use ) , with a few mutants of one bit only : dominance . for higher mutation probabilities @xmath11 , the population fragments into many different languages , whose",
    "sizes do not differ by orders of magnitude and may become equal if the total population size goes to infinity . even in the stationary state ,",
    "languages continuously face extinction and rebirth , and fig.2 shows that most of these languages live only one or a few iterations .",
    "fig.2a holds for dominance and 8 bits , fig.2b for dominance or fragmentation at 8 or 16 bits , and fig.2c for dominance at 16 bits and populations between 1000 and ten million .",
    "we did not forget the fourth data set ( fragmentation at 8 bits ) in fig.2b but there are no extinctions anymore in this case ( we counted only extinctions for @xmath12 to get rid of non - equilibrium effects at the beginning . ) the reason may be that for fragmentation we have many languages of roughly equal sizes , and if we wait long enough each of these languages eventually will die out accidentally .",
    "the larger the population is the longer we have to wait . and for 8 bits , when the one million simulated people are distributed among only @xmath13 languages , the population is higher and the extinction time much higher than for the @xmath14 languages at 16 bits .",
    "thus no extinctions were seen for 8 bits and fragmentation . on the dominance side at lower @xmath8 , at each iteration many mutants are formed differing by one bit only from the preferred language and mutating back to it at as soon as possible ; then we have data for both 8 and 16 bits .",
    "english has evolved as a mixture from french and german , and indeed starting with two languages we did end up with one @xcite . however , this was one of the two original languages and not a mixture .",
    "kosmidis et al @xcite , on the other hand , also got mixture languages where in the simplest case on average each person takes half of the words from one and the other half from the other language . in this aspect",
    ", their model @xcite at first seems better .",
    "however , a re - interpretation of our model @xcite in their spirit @xcite recovers the same mixture language .    for this purpose",
    "we follow @xcite and interpret the first half of our bit - string as representing words from french , and the second half as representing german words .",
    "initially , half the population speaks french and the other speaks german . in the dominance case ,",
    "one of these two languages wins , and nearly everybody speaks it apart from minor variations : wings in fig.3 .",
    "nearly everybody has no bits set in one of the two 8-bit halves at @xmath15 , and has all 8 bits set in the other half ; exceptions are exponentially rare as seen in fig.3 . for fragmentation instead of dominance ,",
    "the parabolic curve in fig.3 shows nearly identical results for the two halves : the most probable case is four bits set in one half and four bits set in the other half , which is the desired mixture .",
    "kosmidis et al @xcite also changed their many parameters such that at the end nearly all bits were set : these are bilinguals speaking both languages fluently .",
    "mixing of populations speaking different languages may also happen @xcite if we put the people onto a square lattice , where many people can live on each site .",
    "nevertheless they can move with probability 0.01 to a neighbouring site , and with probability @xmath8 accept the language of a randomly selected person living on the same site .",
    "finally , during a mutation the bit is flipped randomly with probability @xmath16 while with probability @xmath17 it is taken from the corresponding bit of another person .",
    "( this other person is selected randomly : with probability 1/2 from the same lattice , otherwise from one of the four neighbours . )",
    "now a stable coexistence of two populations is possible , the french on one side of canal street in new orleans , and the english on the other side : fig.4 . with an exponentially decaying probability someone lives as a language minority on the wrong side of the street .",
    "the exponential decay constant , i.e. the interface width , seems to be independent of the lattice size , in contrast to surface roughening in the 2d ising model .",
    "not only our simulations on lattices like fig.4 required agent - based simulations , instead of differential equations averaging over the whole population . also in the case without such spatial effects a differential approach for infinite populations would have been problematic : in the thermodynamic limit , loved by physicists looking for analytic solutions and criticized elsewhere at this seminar for sociophysics , fragmentation would presumably have resulted in a delta function of the language size distribution as opposed to fig.1 , and might have destroyed some phase transitions of @xcite    the computer simulation of language competition , as opposed to the simulation of learning a language by children or of the evolution of the first language out of the sounds of a proto - language , is still in its infancy , both for mean field approaches and for agent - based models .",
    "everybody is invited to join .",
    "abrams and s.h .",
    "strogatz , nature 424 , 900 ( 2003 ) .",
    "m. patriarca and t. leppnen , physica a 338 , 296 ( 2004 ) .",
    "m. pagel , the history rate and pattern of world linguistic evolution , in : c. knight , m. studdert - kennedy and j. hurford , _ the evolutionary emergence of language _ , cambridge university press , cambridge 2000 ; and nature 428 , 275 ( 2004 ) .",
    "briscoe , language 76 , 245 ( 2000 ) . c. schulze and d. stauffer , int .",
    "c 16 , issue 5 ( 2005 ) = cond - mat/0411162 at www.arxiv.org .",
    "k. kosmidis , j.m .",
    "halley and p. argyrakis , physica a , in press = cond - mat/0502118 .",
    "m. eigen , naturwissenschaften 58 , 465 ( 1971 ) .",
    "d. stauffer and c. schulze , preprint for physics of life reviews .",
    "sutherland , nature 423 , 276 ( 2003 ) .",
    "`` evolution of language '' , special section in science 303 , 1315 - 1335 ( 2004 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> using a bit - string model similar to biological simulations , the competition between different languages is simulated both without and with spatial structure . we compare our agent - based work with differential equations and the competing bit - string model of kosmidis et al .    </S>",
    "<S> * sociophysics simulations i : language competition *    christian schulze and dietrich stauffer    institute for theoretical physics , cologne university , d-50923 kln , euroland </S>"
  ]
}