{
  "article_text": [
    "the transient response of muscle to a sudden adjustment of its extension , or to an abrupt change in load , has been one of the most important sources of information about the mechanism of contraction for over three decades .",
    "ever since the pioneering work of @xcite , experimental data on transients has informed theoretical models of the interaction between myosin and actin @xcite , providing a more detailed picture than could be obtained from the force - velocity relation @xcite alone .",
    "the reason is that the actomyosin interaction involves several processes which occur on different time scales , and these individual components can be resolved during the transient response @xcite . the quickest process is the elastic deformation of the myosin crossbridges that link the thick and thin filaments .",
    "rapid transitions between two or more different bound states of the myosin molecule are thought to be the next fastest events , while detachment and reattachment of myosin heads occur on a slower time scale .    in an experiment to determine the isometric transient response ,",
    "a muscle fiber is held at both ends to prevent it from contracting .",
    "the muscle is then suddenly shortened ( or stretched ) by a fixed amount , and the tension @xmath1 that it generates is measured .",
    "immediately after the imposed change of length , the tension shifts from the isometric value @xmath2 to a new value , which is termed @xmath3 .",
    "but shortly afterwards ( typically within @xmath4 ) , the tension adjusts to a new value , termed @xmath0 .",
    "subsequently , it gradually reverts to the original isometric value @xmath2 , and the entire transient response is usually completed in a fraction of a second .",
    "it is generally accepted that the initial response @xmath3 corresponds to the mechanical deformation of cross - bridges and provides a direct measure of their elasticity @xcite .",
    "the interpretation of @xmath0 is rather more controversial .",
    "it is often attributed to force generation by the working stroke of bound myosin molecules @xcite and this interpretation has recently gained support from x - ray interference techniques applied to shortening fibers @xcite .",
    "but alternative models suggest that the force regeneration might be due , in part , to the rapid binding of new myosin heads to the thin filament @xcite , or that it might involve the activation of the second myosin head @xcite .    in this article",
    ", we wish to address a fundamental problem connected with the interpretation of force transients .",
    "the present theories are all based on the consideration of a single pair of filaments , i.e.  one filament containing myosin molecules , interacting with one actin filament .",
    "the dynamics of this filament pair is generalized to that of a whole muscle fiber by assuming that all filament pairs in a fiber behave in exactly the same way .",
    "this assumption is certainly justified as long as there are no static or dynamic instabilities in the system .",
    "however , the possibility of such instabilities has been known for a long time @xcite . moreover , a stochastic model of the actomyosin cycle , based on the swinging lever - arm hypothesis , has shown that instabilities do arise when values of parameters such as the lever - arm displacement and the crossbridge elasticity are chosen to provide effective energy transduction @xcite .",
    "such instabilities would give rise to a region of negative slope in the @xmath0 curve of a single filament pair .",
    "several reasons have been advanced for the absence of any negative slope in the experimentally determined @xmath0 curve .",
    "@xcite argued that the power stroke is sub - divided into several small steps , and fixed the step size so that the @xmath0 curve had zero slope for limitingly small changes of length . in the model proposed by @xcite ,",
    "the flatness of the @xmath0 curve was explained by a broad distribution of cross - bridge strain after attachment , combined with a specific strain - dependence of the transition rates to ensure the proper occupancies of the two bound states . a further explanation involved the compliance of the filaments and the distribution of binding sites on the thin filament in addition to a sub - divided power stroke @xcite .",
    "@xcite has suggested that the flat @xmath0 curve of a muscle fiber can arise despite an instability in the dynamics of a single pair of filaments , owing to the symmetry of a sarcomere .",
    "we investigate this possibility further in this article .",
    "simulation of the stochastic evolution of the system was performed using the gillespie kinetic monte carlo algorithm , which works as follows . in each simulation step",
    "the rates of all possible transitions are calculated .",
    "the time until the next event is chosen as a random number with an exponential distribution and the expectation value given by the inverse of the sum of all rates .",
    "the event itself is chosen randomly with a statistical weight proportional to its rate . in the situations with stiff ( non - compliant ) filaments and continuous binding sites",
    "the transition rates can be factorized into factors that depend only on the backbone position ( which are the same for all motors in a group ) and factors that only depend on the binding position of a motor ( which does not change with time unless that motor undergoes a transition ) .",
    "this allowed us to use a very efficient ( @xmath5 ) algorithm based on binary trees .",
    "we assumed complete mechanical relaxation of the system in each step , i.e. the strain of all elastic elements is equilibrated before the next transition takes place .",
    "the structure involving sarcomeres , filaments and myosin heads was described as a circuit of elements with given resting lengths and compliances .",
    "the strain of every cross - bridge was calculated , given the constraint of fixed total length of the system ( isometric conditions ) , or of fixed force acting on the ends of the system ( isotonic conditions ) .",
    "the @xmath0 transients were always determined @xmath4 after the stretch / release .",
    "all other parameter values are summarized in table [ tab : parameters ] .",
    "[ cols= \" < , < , < \" , ]     at high values of @xmath6 , the model shows an interesting feature . in the isometric state",
    "the number of cross - bridges in the state a2 can be very low , although the generated force per attached cross - bridge is as high as @xmath7 , in agreement with single - filament measurements @xcite .",
    "this allows the muscle to support a load under isometric conditions with little atp consumption @xcite .",
    "it might at first sound paradoxical that most of the isometric force is generated by the pre - power - stroke state a1 .",
    "this is possible because the myosin heads bind with a stochastic distribution of strains .",
    "because those with a negative strain are more likely to undergo the power - stroke and then detach , the remaining ensemble produces a positive force . in this aspect , the power - stroke actually serves to eliminate negatively strained cross - bridges rather than direct generation of positive force .",
    "this notion is in agreement with recent experiments , which have shown that high phosphate concentration does reduce the isometric force significantly @xcite , but it does not have a visible effect on the conformation of the myosin heads or even their catalytic domains @xcite . but let us stress again that this holds only for the isometric state .",
    "the force in a contracting muscle originates mainly from the state a2 .      another important class of experiments which provides information on the actomyosin interation involves the isotonic transient . here",
    "the applied force is initially set at the value of the stalling load @xmath2 , so that the fiber is prevented from contracting .",
    "the force is then suddenly changed and held constant at a different value , while the length of the fiber is recorded . some early experiments showed that following a small step change of load , damped oscillations were imposed on the steady contraction or extension of the fiber @xcite .",
    "such oscillations are particularly clear in recent experiments on single muscle fibers @xcite .",
    "one possible cause of this oscillatory response has previously been suggested on the basis of the stochastic model of the actomyosin interaction used in this article . when @xmath8 , the chemical cycles of myosin motors on the same filament can become synchronized at loads close to the stalling force @xcite .",
    "a pair of filaments then slides in a step - wise fashion under isotonic conditions . but during steady shortening , the motors on different filaments within the same muscle fiber operate out of phase , so that there is no macroscopic manifestation of the steps .",
    "however , an abrupt change in the load can cause the synchronization of a large fraction of the bound motors , whereupon the steps do become observable @xcite . because the correlation of the motors soon decays ,",
    "the macroscopic steps fade and a damped oscillation is seen .",
    "a much stronger oscillatory response is seen in the regime where individual pairs of filaments perform oscillations in the near - isometric state , as described in sect .",
    "[ sec_osci ] .",
    "the synchronized oscillations can then be very pronounced following a small decrease in the load , as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig_forcestep]a . on the other hand ,",
    "no damped oscillations are observed after a larger drop in the load , e.g. to @xmath9 ( fig .",
    "[ fig_forcestep]b ) , because the individual filament pairs immediately move out of the hysteretic regime .",
    "these properties are in agreement with recent experiments on the isotonic response of single muscle fibers carried out by @xcite .    , @xmath10 and with 50 myosin filaments acting in parallel .",
    "the results were averaged over 125 events ( which has the same effect as simulating that number of sarcomeres in series ) .",
    "a small drop in the load synchronizes the cross - bridges and therefore causes observable macroscopic oscillations ( a ) .",
    "the oscillations are less pronounced , but still visible following a small increase in the load ( c).,title=\"fig : \" ] + , @xmath10 and with 50 myosin filaments acting in parallel .",
    "the results were averaged over 125 events ( which has the same effect as simulating that number of sarcomeres in series ) .",
    "a small drop in the load synchronizes the cross - bridges and therefore causes observable macroscopic oscillations ( a ) .",
    "the oscillations are less pronounced , but still visible following a small increase in the load ( c).,title=\"fig : \" ] + , @xmath10 and with 50 myosin filaments acting in parallel .",
    "the results were averaged over 125 events ( which has the same effect as simulating that number of sarcomeres in series ) .",
    "a small drop in the load synchronizes the cross - bridges and therefore causes observable macroscopic oscillations ( a ) .",
    "the oscillations are less pronounced , but still visible following a small increase in the load ( c).,title=\"fig : \" ]    in steady isotonic conditions , another kind of instability can arise due to a hysteresis in the force - velocity relationship .",
    "the possibility of such an instability was first discussed in the context of a two - state ratchet model @xcite and subsequently in a kinetic cross - bridge model with a strain - dependent detachment rate @xcite . with the parameters we use this hysteresis ,",
    "though existent , covers a rather small range of velocities and only results in a small inflexion in the force - velocity curve @xcite .",
    "in the past , the isometric transient model of muscle has been modelled by considering the dynamics of a single pair of filaments .",
    "a significant problem with this approach is that , with a general choice of parameters in a cross - bridge model , the @xmath11 curve is not flat @xcite  it typically has either a positive or a negative slope for limitingly small step displacements .",
    "thus , in order to reproduce the experimental @xmath11 curve of muscle , some of the parameters have needed to be finely adjusted @xcite , and limitations have been imposed on the size @xmath12 of the power - stroke and the rigidity @xmath13 of the cross - bridges @xcite . in this article",
    "we have investigated the isometric transient response using a stochastic model of the actomyosin cycle . when values of the parameters @xmath12 and @xmath13 are chosen to explain other characteristics of muscle , like the force - velocity relation and the efficiency of energy transduction , the @xmath0 curve of a single pair of filaments displays a region of negative slope , which can not be eliminated by factors including filament compliance and the discrete nature of the binding sites on the actin filament .",
    "however , we argue that the symmetric structure of sarcomeres must be taken into consideration when computing the isometric transient response of muscle . following",
    "a step change of length of a muscle fiber , a redistribution of sarcomere lengths occurs within the fiber . some half - sarcomeres contract , while others extend .",
    "this redistribution always eliminates the negative slope , leading to a flat @xmath0 curve .",
    "it is a generic feature of unstable elements connected in series , and does not require any special values of model parameters .",
    "our model shows that there are two different regimes of the microscopic dynamics in near - isometric conditions . for a range of values of the parameter @xmath6 close to unity",
    ", the isometric point falls in the interval where the slope of the @xmath0 curve is negative . in this case",
    "individual filament pairs oscillate with small amplitude . in the other regime , where the @xmath0 curve has positive slope at the isometric point , the individual filaments are stationary , apart from stochastic fluctuations .",
    "the macroscopic manifestations of these two regimes differ in few respects . because the oscillations of different filament pairs have different phases , oscillatory motion is not normally observable on the scale of a whole muscle fiber in steady conditions . however , a sudden change of load can synchronize the oscillations and thereby make them visible .",
    "the existence of damped oscillations in the isotonic transient response of single muscle fibers @xcite therefore argues in favor of the oscillating regime .",
    "we note , however , that damped oscillations can also be a manifestation of step - wise shortening @xcite , which can exist in both regimes . because the efficient transduction of energy demands @xmath14 , which is close to value of this parameter at the boundary of the two regimes , it is possible that both regimes exist depending on conditions such as the myosin isoform , phosphate concentration , ph , ionic strength and temperature .",
    "indeed , measurements by @xcite show a dependence of the oscillation decay on the solution ph and on muscle fatigue . further experiments , in which conditions are systematically varied , could shed more light on the mechanism of oscillation .    as a final remark",
    ", we emphasize that according to our model , the @xmath0 curve of an individual pair of filaments differs from that of a muscle fiber .",
    "recently , assays have been developed to measure the force - velocity relation of a single filament within a half - sarcomere @xcite . in order to test our predictions",
    ", it would worthwhile to develop such high - precision techniques to measure the transient response of a single filament .",
    "a.v . would like to acknowledge support from the european union through a marie curie fellowship ( no .  hpmfct-2000 - 00522 ) and from the slovenian office of science ( grant no .",
    "z1 - 4509 - 0106 - 02 ) .",
    "t.d . acknowledges support from the royal society .",
    "irving , m. , g.  piazzesi , l.  lucii , y.  b. sun , j.  j. harford , i.  m. dobbie , m.  a. ferenczi , m.  reconditi , and v.  lombardi .",
    "2000__. conformation of the myosin motor during force generation in skeletal muscle . 7:482 - 485 .",
    "piazzesi , g. , m.  reconditi , m.  linari , l.  lucii , y.  b. sun , t.  narayanan , p.  boesecke , v.  lombardi , and m.  irving .",
    "2002_a_. mechanism of force generation by myosin heads in skeletal muscle . 415:659 - 662 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate the isometric transient response of muscle using a quantitative stochastic model of the actomyosin cycle based on the swinging lever - arm hypothesis . we first consider a single pair of filaments , and show that when values of parameters such as the lever - arm displacement and the crossbridge elasticity are chosen to provide effective energy transduction , the @xmath0 curve ( the tension recovered immediately after a step displacement ) displays a region of negative slope . </S>",
    "<S> if filament compliance and the discrete nature of the binding sites are taken into account , the negative slope is diminished , but not eliminated . </S>",
    "<S> this implies that there is an instability in the dynamics of individual half - sarcomeres . </S>",
    "<S> however , when the symmetric nature of whole sarcomeres is taken into account , filament rearrangement becomes important during the transient : as tension is recovered , some half - sarcomeres lengthen while others shorten . </S>",
    "<S> this leads to a flat @xmath0 curve , as observed experimentally . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , we investigate the isotonic transient response and show that for a range of parameter values the model displays damped oscillations , as recently observed in experiments on single muscle fibers . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that it is essential to consider the collective dynamics of many sarcomeres , rather than the dynamics of a single pair of filaments , when interpreting the transient response of muscle . </S>"
  ]
}