{
  "article_text": [
    "today more than half of the mankind is living in cities , while 50 years ago this were only 30 percent @xcite .",
    "the growth of cities worldwide is inexorable and a great challenge for the urban development and architecture . in this context knowledge about pedestrian dynamics is important and allows e.g. the design and optimization of facilities with respect to safety , level of service and economy .",
    "a basic practical application is the capacity estimation which allows the dimensioning or evaluation of facilities @xcite . for this purpose one",
    "is interested in the number of pedestrians , @xmath0 , which is able to pass the facility in a certain time interval , @xmath1 .",
    "the specifying quantity is the flow :    @xmath2    the capacity is defined as the maximal value for the flow , @xmath3 , and allows e.g. the estimation of the minimal time needed for emptying of a given facility or of the minimal width of the facility which allows the emptying in a given time . in the case of a classical bottleneck , like a narrowing in a corridor , it is generally assumed that a jam will occur when the incoming flow exceeds the capacity of the bottleneck @xcite . at first glance",
    "this seems to be a reasonable assumption which can be justified by reference to the continuity equation .",
    "this equation trivially implies the increase of the density in a control volume if the incoming flow is larger than the outgoing flow .",
    "however , this establishes @xmath4 only as an upper limit for the incoming flow which produces a jam and does not exclude its formation for smaller flow values already .    in the literature one can find different specifications to estimate the capacity of a pedestrian facility .",
    "the flow equation in combination with empirical measurements is commonly used , see for example @xcite . with the width of the pedestrian facility , @xmath5 ,",
    "the flow equation can be written    @xmath6    the specific flow , @xmath7 , gives the flow per unit - width and can be calculated as the product of the average density , @xmath8 , and the average speed , @xmath9 , of a pedestrian stream .",
    "the velocity and thus the flow is a function of the density .",
    "the empirical relation between flow and density , @xmath10 , is called the fundamental diagram for which one can find different representations . with a given fundamental diagram in the representation",
    "@xmath11 the capacity of a facility is defined as the maximum of this function . in general",
    "it is assumed that for a given facility ( e.g. corridors , stairs , doors ) equation [ basflow ] is valid , which implies that the fundamental diagrams for different @xmath5 merge into one universal diagram for the specific flow @xmath7 .",
    "consequently the capacity , @xmath12 , is assumed to be a linear function of the width , @xmath5 .",
    "this assumption is used for all kinds of facilities and pedestrian streams ( uni- or bidirectional ) . in this article",
    "we concentrate on unidirectional pedestrian movement through bottlenecks under normal conditions .",
    "if in the following the term movement under normal conditions is used it is meant , that panic or in particular non adaptive behavior which can occur in critical situation or under circumstances including rewards @xcite are excluded .    ]",
    "figure [ r - fs - intro ] shows various fundamental diagrams used in handbooks and planing guidelines for the capacity estimations of openings , doors or bottlenecks .",
    "the fundamental diagrams differ with respect to both , the height of the maximum ( i.e. the capacity ) and the corresponding density value . according to the handbook of the society of fire protection engineers ( sfpe ) and the guideline of weidmann ( wm )",
    "the maximum is located at a density around @xmath13 , while the maximum considered from predtechenskii and milinskii which gives the area of horizontal projection of a pedestrian in mid - season street dress and the fundamental diagram for movement under normal conditions . ]",
    "( pm ) is located at densities larger than @xmath14 .",
    "the predicted capacities differ from @xmath15 to @xmath16 . but as mentioned above all this procedures assume a linear dependence between capacity and bottleneck - width .    contrary to this , hoogendoorn and daamen",
    "@xcite claim that the capacity is growing in a step - wise manner .",
    "this statement is based on their observation that inside a bottleneck the formation of lanes occurs , resulting from the zipper effect during entering the bottleneck .",
    "the zipper effect is a self organization phenomenon leading to an optimization of the available space and velocity inside the bottleneck .",
    "the data in @xcite indicate that the distance between these lanes is independent of the bottleneck - width .",
    "this would imply that the capacity increases only when an additional lane can develop , i.e. that this would occur in a stepwise manner with increasing width @xcite .",
    "consequently , either the specific flow would decreases between the values where the steps occur or the flow equation in combination with the concept of a specific flow would not hold .",
    "one goal of this work is to examine this claim ( and especially section  [ results ] is devoted to this question ) .",
    ".comparison of estimated and measured capacities for bottlenecks .",
    "the results reveal the differences not only between measurements and estimations , but also among the estimation methods or specifications .",
    "[ capest ] [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     the results of the regression analysis are collected in table [ fitres ] . for @xmath17 even with @xmath18 the stationary state is not reached , see e.g. figure [ v - r - time ] .",
    "the results for @xmath19 and @xmath20 indicate that the relaxation into the stationary state is almost independent of the width .",
    "however , for a final judgment more data or a larger number of test persons would be necessary .",
    "nevertheless , the results are accurate enough to check at which position of the fundamental diagram the stationary state will be located .",
    "again , the increase of the stationary values for the density @xmath21 can be explained by means of the zipper effect in combination with boundary effects .",
    "given that the space at the boundaries can not be used as efficient as in the center of the bottleneck the density will increase for bigger width . while the stationary values of the densities increase the velocities shows a less pronounced decrease with @xmath5 according to the fundamental diagram .",
    "again , for a final judgment an improved data basis is needed .",
    "in this section we compare and combine our results with the data of previous measurements .",
    "we will show that the apparent discrepancies between the different flow measurements at bottlenecks can be traced back to different initial conditions .",
    "this allows a conclusive judgment on the question if the dependence of the flow and the bottleneck - width is linear .",
    "in addition does these results have a bearing on the question at which flow value a jam occurs .          in figure [ phi - b ] we have collected experimental data for flows through bottlenecks .",
    "all measurements were performed under laboratory conditions .",
    "the amount of test persons ranged from @xmath22 to @xmath23 persons .",
    "the influence of panic or pushing can be excluded as the collection is limited to measurements where the test persons were asked to move normally .",
    "however , the experimental arrangements under which this data were taken differ in many detailed respects which provide possible explanations for the discrepancies .",
    "the outlines of the different experimental arrangements are sketched in figure [ eset : sub ] .",
    "significant differences concern :    * the geometry of the bottleneck , i.e. its length and position with respect to the incoming flow . * the initial conditions , i.e. initial density values and the initial distance between the test persons and the bottleneck .",
    "the flow measurements of @xcite show a leveling off at @xmath24 .",
    "but the range of the flat profile from @xmath25 to @xmath26 indicates that obviously the passage width is not the limiting factor for the flow in this setup .",
    "the data of @xcite and @xcite are shifted to higher flows in comparison with the data of @xcite , @xcite and our data .",
    "the height of the flows in the experiments of mller and nagai can be explained by their use of much higher initial densities which amount to @xmath27 . that the initial density has this impact",
    "is confirmed by the study of nagai et al .",
    ", see figure 6 in @xcite . there",
    "it is shown that for @xmath28 the flow grows from @xmath29 to @xmath30 when the initial density is increased from @xmath31 to @xmath32 .",
    "next we will discuss the influence of the geometry and the position of the bottleneck . as can be seen in figure [ phi - b",
    "] there is a fair agreement between our data and the results obtained by kretz .",
    "this indicates the minor importance of the bottleneck - length , given that in our experiment it amounts to @xmath33 while kretz has chosen a bottleneck of @xmath34 length only .    while in our and kretz s experiment the bottleneck was centered , nagai used a bottleneck located on the left side of the corridor .",
    "the comparison of the measurements for @xmath28 of nagai for the initial densities of @xmath35 ( not displayed in figure [ phi - b ] ) with the data of kretz and our results show that the flow of @xmath36 is in good agreement with our measurements .",
    "the same applies to the flow measured by muir which is particularly noteworthy since muir has measured these values for the movement of a bottleneck in an airplane , where even the corridor is very small and the bottleneck is build by the galley units before the main embarkation point @xcite",
    ".    finally we have to dicuss the differences between the flow values of mueller and nagai . as noted above this",
    "can not be explained by the initial densities since both used similar ( high ) values",
    ". however , mller measured at a simple opening in a thin wall of shelves while nagai used a bottleneck with @xmath34 .",
    "this fact could be used to explain higher flow values for mller , given the common and reasonable assumption that the flow is correlated to the liberty of action which is higher for less deep bottlenecks .",
    "however , just the opposite is being observed , i.e. mller s result lie below nagai s data . a possible explanation is provided by the different distances from the bottleneck to the first pedestrians at time @xmath37 .",
    "while nagai positioned the test persons directly in front of the bottleneck mller arranged a distance of @xmath38 between the exit and the first pedestrians .",
    "thus it is expected that the density will decrease during the movement from the initial position to the bottleneck resulting in an smaller density directly in front of the bottleneck .    from all this",
    "we conclude that details of the bottleneck geometry and position play a minor role only while the initial density in front of the bottleneck has a major impact .      as mentioned in the introduction one goal of this work",
    "is to examine if the flow or the capacity is a linear function of the width , @xmath5 , of a bottleneck or if it grows in a stepwise manner , as suggested by @xcite .",
    "such a stepwise growth would question the validity of the specific flow concept used in most guidelines , see section [ sec - intro ] .",
    "however , the previous section has argued for the coherence of our data set and previous measurements .",
    "all of these results are compatible with a linear and continuous increase of the flow with the width of the bottleneck . only around @xmath39",
    "it seems that the data of @xcite show a small edge .",
    "the edge is located exactly at the width where the zipper effect can begin to act , i.e. provides no evidence for a stepwise behavior in general . moreover does the alleged stepwise increase of the flow follows from the assumption that inside a bottleneck the formation of lanes with constant distance occurs . in @xcite this assumption is based on flow measurements at two different bottlenecks at @xmath40 and @xmath41 .",
    "it is doubtful whether this results can be extrapolated to intermediate values of the width .",
    "in fact our data show no evidence for the appearance of lanes with constant distance ( see section [ hoogi_macht_mist ] , in particular figure [ multitrj ] ) .",
    "the above results can be used to address a crucial question in pedestrian dynamics , namely the criteria for the occurrence of a jam .",
    "as mentioned already in the introduction it is commonly assumed that this happens when the incoming flow ( through a surface in front of the bottleneck ) exceeds the capacity of the bottleneck . here",
    "the capacity of the bottleneck is defined as the maximum of the specific flow , @xmath42 , times its width .    a preliminary analysis of the situation one meter in front of the bottleneck entrance shows density fluctuations inside the jam between @xmath43 to @xmath44 independent from the width of the bottleneck .",
    "our results from section [ ana ] can be used to examine which density and flow inside the bottleneck is present for a situation where a jam occurs in front of the bottleneck . for this purpose",
    "the fitted values for @xmath21 and @xmath45 are used ( see table [ fitres ] ) .",
    "figure [ r - fs ] indicates that the values for the stationary density derived from our experiment are exactly located at the position where the fundamental diagram according to the sfpe - handbook and the guideline of weidmann show the maximum of the flow ( while the absolute value of the flow exceeds the predicted values ) , i.e. @xmath46 .",
    "this seems to support the common jam - occurrence criteria .",
    "however , two observations cast doubt on this conclusion .",
    "already when discussing the data of mller and nagai we have mentioned that higher initial densities result in higher flow values , i.e. that the maximal flow can not be near @xmath47 .",
    "in addition do the fundamental diagrams of mori @xcite , hanking @xcite and pm @xcite display a completely different shape . according to mori and hanking and in agreement with the specification of pm",
    "the flow will increase from @xmath46 or stay constant with increasing density .",
    "moreover does the level of the flow measured in our experiment conforms much better with their specification .    in the literature",
    "one finds a multitude of different explanations for the deviations between fundamental diagrams , including cultural and population differences @xcite , differences between uni- and multidirectional flow @xcite , influence of psychological factors given by the incentive of the movement @xcite and , partially related to the latter , the type of traffic like commuters or shoppers @xcite . moreover , in a laboratory experiment , the population is special , and the incentive will most likely be different from that in a field measurements .",
    "we assume that for densities higher than @xmath48 cultural and population differences influence the required space and change the scaling of the density but not the shape of the diagram .",
    "the change in the scaling of the fundamental diagram due to the incentive of the movement and body size is accordance with predtechenskii and milinskii @xcite . as a starting point of a further discussion",
    "we refer to influences due to multidirectional flow @xcite and look in the origin of the fundamental diagrams shown in figure  [ r - fs ] .",
    "it seems that the most detailed one is given by weidmann which used 25 data sets for generating his fundamental diagram .",
    "but if one performs an examination of the data which went into weidmann s combination it turns out that most measurements with densities larger then @xmath13 are performed with bidirectional streams , see @xcite . but also",
    "data gained by measurements on strictly unidirectional streams has been considered @xcite .",
    "the data of hanking and wright gained by measurements in london subway ( uk ) are in good agreement with the data of mori and tsukaguchi who measured in the central business district of osaka ( japan ) .",
    "their fundamental diagrams agree very well and differ notable from the fundamental diagram of the sfpe and weidmann for densities larger @xmath48 . in accordance with predtechenskii and milinskii",
    "we assume that the maximum of the fundamental diagram for unidirectional movement is at much higher densities .",
    "thus we conclude from our measurements of densities and velocities that the flow through the bottleneck under normal conditions will not reach the capacity defined through the maximum of the fundamental diagram and that a jam occurs well before the maximum is reached .",
    "there are three possible reasons for jamming below the capacity limit .",
    "one is clearly flow fluctuations .",
    "local density maxima higher then capacity - density cause obstructions that can be resolved only if the incoming flow is less than the outflow , which in this case is below capacity .",
    "a second reason is in the local organization of the pedestrians . at high densities",
    ", the full flow requires a fairly regular positioning of persons .",
    "this may be achieved by pre - arranging them - as in the experiments in @xcite - or possibly by funneling the flow into the bottleneck .",
    "neither the random arrival at a narrow passage out of the almost free motion in a wide room nor the - also random - starting into the passage from waiting in a jam can achieve this .",
    "therefor the actual bottleneck is the entrance into the passage , while in the passage itself the flow corresponds to the lower density associated with the observed flux ( compare pm @xcite ) .",
    "the third reason is motivational , people usually prefer larger distances to the person in front than necessary unless there is the danger of somebody else filling the gap - or some other incentive for moving up close .",
    "these topics will be the subject of future research .",
    "we have studied experimentally the flow of unidirectional pedestrian streams through bottlenecks under normal conditions . for the data analysis we used the trajectories to determine the time development of the individual velocities , local densities and time gaps for different widths of the bottleneck .",
    "the analysis shows that for a small variation of the width quantities like the time gap distribution or the lane distance change continuously if the zipper effect is acting .",
    "the results for velocities and densities are compared to common methods for the capacity estimation and to experimental data from other studies .    except for the edge at @xmath49 due to zipper effect starting to act all collected data for flow measurements are compatible with a linear and continuous increase with the bottleneck - width . the linear dependency between the flow and the width holds for different kinds of bottlenecks and initial conditions .",
    "hence the basic flow equation in combination with the use of the specific flow concept is justified for facilities with @xmath50 .",
    "moreover does the comparison with flow measurements through bottlenecks of different types and lengths show that the exact geometry of the bottleneck is of only minor influence on the flow .",
    "the rise of the flow through the bottleneck with an increase of the initial density in front of the bottleneck from @xmath48 to @xmath51 indicates at least for this density region a rising of the slope of the fundamental diagram for unidirectional streams .",
    "this is in disagreement with most fundamental diagrams as documented in handbooks and guidelines but in agreement with empirical fundamental diagrams restricted to unidirectional movement and with the shape of the fundamental diagram according to predtechenskii and milinskii .",
    "thus the capacity defined by the maximum of the fundamental diagram is expected for densities substantial higher than @xmath48 .",
    "with respect to the absolute flow values one needs to bear in mind that our results were obtained with young probands and under laboratory conditions .    our measurements of densities and velocities inside the bottleneck show that the stationary flow will tune around densities of @xmath46 when a jam occurs in front of the bottleneck . for higher densities higher flow values",
    "are expected in reference to the maxima of fundamental diagrams restricted to unidirectional streams .",
    "supplementary an increase of the flow for @xmath52 is observed in the experiments of @xcite . thus jamming occurs for flow values lower than maximal possible flow values .",
    "this contradicts the common assumption that a jam appears only when the capacity is exceeded . while the continuity equation trivially implies that the capacity is the upper limit for a jam producing flow ,",
    "do our results indicate that this happens for smaller flow values already .",
    "possible reasons are stochastic flow fluctuation , flow interferences due to the necessity of local organization or psychological founded changes of the incentive during the access into the bottleneck .    all experimental measurements of flow values through bottlenecks discussed in this paper are gained by laboratory experiments . concerning differences between field measurements and laboratory experiments one has to note , that absolute values and figures obtained in a laboratory experiment can not simply be used for design recommendations .",
    "the qualitative conclusions however - the bottleneck capacity grows about linear with width and jamming may occur below maximum capacity - are not affected by changes in scaling of the flow measurements or of the fundamental diagram .",
    "tragic disasters like at the lwenbru - keller in munich , germany ( 1973 ) , bergisel in austria ( 1999 ) or akashi japan ( 2001 ) @xcite have shown that already without the influence of panic insufficient dimensions of facilities can cause high densities in bottlenecks . at high densities small interferences in the crowd can not be balanced and may cause fatalities due to people stamped to the ground by high pressure . for a better evaluation of pedestrian facilities with respect to safety it is necessary to explore under",
    "which circumstances such an increase of the density inside the bottleneck occurs .",
    "we thank tinh nguyen for the extraction of the literature data for the fundamental diagrams . for the useful discussions we thank tobias",
    "kretz , christian rogsch and andreas schadschneider . for the informations and support concerning experimental data published in @xcite",
    "we thank takashi nagatani .",
    "s.  p. hoogendoorn , w.  daamen , and p.  h.  l. bovy .",
    "microscopic pedestrian traffic data collection and analysis by walking experiments : behaviour at bottlenecks . in e.",
    "r. galea , editor , _ pedestrian and evacuation dynamics 03 _ , pages 89100 .",
    "cms press , london , 2003 .",
    "h.  e. nelson and f.  w. mowrer . emergency movement . in p.",
    "j. dinenno , editor , _ sfpe handbook of fire protection engineering _ , chapter  14 , page 367",
    ". national fire protection association , quincy ma , third edition , 2002 .            v.  m. predtechenskii and a.  i. milinskii . .",
    "amerind publishing , new dehli , 1978 .",
    "translation of : proekttirovanie zhdanii s uchetom organizatsii dvizheniya lyuddskikh potokov , stroiizdat publishers , moscow , 1969 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> capacity estimation is an important tool for the design and dimensioning of pedestrian facilities . </S>",
    "<S> the literature contains different procedures and specifications which show considerable differences with respect to the estimated flow values . </S>",
    "<S> moreover do new experimental data indicate a stepwise growing of the capacity with the width and thus challenge the validity of the specific flow concept . to resolve these differences </S>",
    "<S> we have studied experimentally the unidirectional pedestrian flow through bottlenecks under laboratory conditions . </S>",
    "<S> the time development of quantities like individual velocities , density and individual time gaps in bottlenecks of different width is presented . </S>",
    "<S> the data show a linear growth of the flow with the width . </S>",
    "<S> the comparison of the results with experimental data of other authors indicates that the basic assumption of the capacity estimation for bottlenecks has to be revised . in contradiction with most planning guidelines </S>",
    "<S> our main result is , that a jam occurs even if the incoming flow does not overstep the capacity defined by the maximum of the flow according to the fundamental diagram . </S>",
    "<S> +    * keywords : * pedestrian dynamics , traffic flow , traffic and crowd dynamics , capacity of bottlenecks </S>"
  ]
}