{
  "article_text": [
    "cryocrystallographic methods play a central role in protein crystallography ( hope , 1990 ; rodgers , 1994 ; chayen et al . ,",
    "1996 ; garman and schneider , 1997 ; garman , 1999 ; juers and matthews , 2004 ) .",
    "the amount of data that can be collected from a crystal before significant degradation in the x - ray beam occurs is increased and , compared with room temperature data collection in glass capillaries , crystal handling is in many ways simplified .",
    "these large benefits have accrued even though many aspects of the cryoprotection and flash cooling processes have been poorly understood .",
    "protein crystals are mechanically very fragile . because they contain ( and can be surrounded by ) large amounts of water , formation and growth of water ice crystals during cooling",
    "degrades protein crystal order and diffraction properties ( garman and schneider , 1997 ) . instead",
    ", water must be cooled into an amorphous , vitreous or glassy state in which the liquid phase s lack of long - range order is preserved but its molecular motions are frozen out .    glass formation during cooling occurs only if crystal nucleation is somehow suppressed . because of thermodynamic and kinetic barriers , formation of crystal nuclei requires a finite time , so higher cooling rates reduce the probability of nucleation and favor glass formation .",
    "the nucleation probability also depends on how liquid properties like viscosity vary with temperature , and thus on the detailed form of the cooling path t(t ) .",
    "cryoprotective agents ( cpas ) like glycerol , which dissolve in or fully mix with water , modify molecular diffusion relevant to nucleation .",
    "however , they can also lead to changes in protein structure and , if introduced via post - growth soaks , can cause osmotic shock and crystal damage , especially at higher concentrations .",
    "the vitreous ice / polycrystalline ice phase diagram as a function of cryoprotectant concentration thus provides an important tool for optimising cryopreservation protocols .",
    "the conventional method used to determine vitreous / crystal phase diagrams in the temperature / concentration plane is based on differential scanning calorimetry ( dsc ) ( mackenzie , 1977 ) .",
    "a metal or glass container holding a solution volume of @xmath3 @xmath1l is plunged into liquid nitrogen to cool the solution into the vitreous state .",
    "typical cooling rates in dsc experiments are @xmath4 k / s , and the cooling history determines the properties of the glassy state .",
    "calorimetry measurements are then performed as the sample is warmed , typically at @xmath5 k / s . for the slow cooling rates typical of dsc , homogeneous crystal nucleation occurs below a critical cpa concentration @xmath6 ( luyet and rasmussen , 1968 ; rasmussen and luyet , 1970 ; fahy et al . , 1984 ) .",
    "above @xmath6 , only heterogeneous nucleation occurs , and this can be suppressed either by using `` clean '' samples or by reducing the sample size .",
    "homogeneous and heterogeneous nucleation can be distinguished by comparing the behavior of bulk liquid , thin films ( turnbull and fisher , 1949 ) , and emulsions ( luyet and rasmussen , 1968 ; rasmussen and luyet , 1970 ) .",
    "@xmath6 thus determines the minimum cpa concentration required to achieve vitrified ice under slow - cooling conditions . in protein",
    "crystallography , sample volumes range from @xmath1l to pl - orders of magnitude smaller than in dsc measurements .",
    "the cooling rates therefore are much larger , so the cpa concentrations needed to achieve vitreous ice should be smaller .    to date , the kinetic phase diagrams giving the minimum ( critical ) cpa concentration required for vitrification during plunge cooling in common liquid cryogens have not been determined for any cpa in the volume / cooling rate range relevant to cryocrystallography .",
    "in particular , the development of microfabricated mounts ( thorne et al . , 2003 ) as a replacement for loops in cryocyrstallography has allowed very small crystals to be routinely mounted with very little surrounding liquid , and there is no information on cpa concentrations required for vitrification in such small volumes . recent experiments ( garman and mitchell , 1996 ; mcferrin and snell , 2002 ; chinte , et al . , 2005 ) have probed the behavior of larger volumes obtained by mixing glycerol with hampton crystallization screens , with @xmath7 v / v glycerol concentration increments .",
    "these screens contain multiple components such as salts and other cpas , and the liquid volumes have not been accurately measured , making detailed interpretation of results difficult .",
    "critical cpa concentrations are of interest not just in protein crystallography but more generally in cryopreservation of biological samples .",
    "this suggests binary aqueous solutions as the starting point for systematic study .",
    "we have determined the vitreous ice / polycrystalline ice phase diagrams of cpa concentration versus volume for plunge cooling in liquid nitrogen .",
    "we have examined volumes varying by up to five orders of magnitude , from @xmath5 nl ( 0.1 nl for glycerol ) to 20 @xmath1l .",
    "the measurements were done for fourteen different penetrating and nonpenetrating cryoprotectants , including alcohols ( glycerol , methanol , isopropanol ) , sugars ( sucrose , xylitol , dextrose , trehalose ) , polyethylene glycols ( pegs ) ( ethylene glycol , peg 200 , peg 2 000 , peg 20 000 ) , glycols ( dimethyl sulfoxide ( dmso ) , 2-methyl-2,4-pentanediol ( mpd ) ) , and salt ( nacl ) .",
    "drops of solution were plunge cooled from t=295 k into liquid nitrogen at t=77 k. the resulting low temperature phase - vitreous or polycrystalline - was determined from visual observation of whether the drops remained transparent or became opaque , supplemented by x - ray diffraction measurements .",
    "for the most common cpas , the required concentration is a strong function of volume , and for typical volumes relevant in protein crystallography is roughly half that required for volumes greater than 10 @xmath1l . for glycerol",
    ", we have also determined the critical concentration for vitrification versus cooling rate .",
    "all cryoprotective agents were obtained from sigma - aldrich ( st . louis , mo ) .",
    "cpas were mixed with distilled deionized ( di ) water to produce aliquots in increments of @xmath2 weight per volume ( w / v ) . for solid cpas ,",
    "weighing errors were less than @xmath8 . for liquid cpas , uncertainties in dilution with di water in volumetric flasks",
    "were less than @xmath8 . to ensure full mixing for solid cpas near their solubility limits and for high viscosity liquid cpas , the solutions were heated , stirred and sonicated .",
    "four types of sample holder were used to accommodate different sample volumes : ( 1 ) 24 gauge ( 0.51 mm diameter ) copper loops with 1.6 - 1.7 mm diameters and ( 2 ) 36 gauge ( 0.13 mm diameter ) tungsten loops with @xmath00.9 mm diameters were used for volumes of 7.5 @xmath1l to 20 @xmath1l and 100 nl to 7.5 @xmath1l , respectively ; ( 3 ) cryoloops ( hampton research , laguna niguel , ca ) of 10 @xmath1 m nylon with nominal apertures of 0.1 - 0.5 mm were used for volumes between 200 and 100 nl ; and ( 4 ) micromounts ( mitegen , ithaca , ny ) made from 10 @xmath1 m polyimide films with apertures of 100 to 500 @xmath1 m were used for volumes smaller than 100 nl . in all cases ,",
    "experiments were performed to verify that the sample holder did not limit cooling rates .",
    ".[tab1]typical volumes @xmath9 , aspect ratios @xmath10 , relative volume errors @xmath11 , dispensers @xmath12 ( a : pipetman p20 , b : pipetman p2 ) and sample holders ( 1 : copper loop , 2 : tungsten loop , and 3 : micromount , with aperture in @xmath1 m , as described in the text ) for the aqueous cpa samples used in these experiments . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     most of the studied cryoprotectants show three regimes of behavior : a large volume ( @xmath13l ) region where the critical concentration is nearly constant ; an intermediate volume region where the critical concentration decreases with decreasing volume ; and a small volume ( @xmath14l ) region where the critical concentration again becomes nearly constant .",
    "table ii gives the critical concentration of each cpa versus sample volume , and the ratio of the critical concentrations in the large and small volume regimes , respectively .",
    "for nacl , the solubility limit was reached before vitrification could be achieved at larger volumes .",
    "nacl is a particularly poor cryoprotectant , because it is effective only at small volumes and even then at concentrations that are inhospitable to most proteins and cells . for the pegs , increasing the molecular weight extended the large - volume region of nearly constant critical concentration to lower volumes , and peg 20,000 did not show any volume dependence between 0.1 @xmath1l to 20 @xmath1l .",
    "x - ray diffraction was used to verify that the transparent / opaque optical transition indeed corresponds with the vitreous ice / polycrystalline ice transition .",
    "vitreous ice ( dowell and rinfret , 1960 ) produces a diffuse ring of scattering near 3.7 @xmath15 , corresponding to the mean intermolecular spacing in the vitreous phase .",
    "polycrystalline hexagonal ice produces a sharp ring at 2.24 @xmath15 ( 110 ) and a cluster of three rings ( ( 100 ) , ( 002 ) , and ( 101 ) ) with the central ring at 3.7 @xmath15 ( dowell and rinfret , 1960 ; murray et al .",
    ", 2005 ; kohl et al . , 2000 ) . in the following",
    "we refer to the rings at 2.24 and 3.7 @xmath15 as @xmath16 and @xmath17 rings , respectively .",
    "the ( 220 ) planes of cubic ice produce a ring at 2.24 @xmath15 , and the ( 111 ) planes produce one strong ring ( as opposed to 3 rings ) at 3.7 @xmath15 .",
    "the number of rings at the @xmath17 ring spacing can thus be used to distinguish the crystalline symmetry of the ice , provided that finite - size broadening determined by the crystallite sizes is smaller than the hexagonal ring spacing .    in previous studies ,",
    "x - ray diffraction measurements of the vitreous - polycrystalline transition used relatively large ( 0.1 - 1 @xmath1l ) and ill - defined drop volumes ( garman and mitchell , 1996 ; mcferrin and snell , 2002 ; chinte et al . , 2005 ) .",
    "we examined smaller volumes of 100 nl and 200 pl , which correspond to the range of volumes relevant to protein crystallography on @xmath18 @xmath1 m crystals .",
    "figures 2 and 4 show a subset of a series of diffraction patterns obtained as the glycerol concentration was increased from zero and through the optically determined critical concentration . for both 100 nl and 200 pl volumes , the diffraction patterns of pure water",
    "showed scattered spots at the @xmath16 and @xmath17 d - spacings of hexagonal ice , indicating the presence of a finite number of relatively large crystallites .",
    "when glycerol is added , these spots become more numerous and eventually broaden into continuous rings , indicating an increase in the number of randomly - oriented hexagonal crystallites and thus a decrease in their size . on further concentration increase ,",
    "the three hexagonal @xmath17 rings are replaced by a single , much more intense ring ( inset c ) , indicating a phase change from hexagonal to cubic ice ( dowell and rinfret , 1960 ; murray et al . , 2005 ;",
    "kohl et al . , 2000 ) . above a critical glycerol concentration",
    ", the @xmath16 ring disappears and the @xmath17 ring becomes broad and diffuse ( insets b and a ) , indicating a transition to vitreous ice .",
    "figure 5 shows the boiling time @xmath19 versus drop volume v for a @xmath20 w / v glycerol solution , where @xmath19 was determined as the time after a drop was submerged that the audible ( and visual ) transition from film boiling to nucleate boiling was observed , as discussed in section 2.3 . for moderate volumes",
    "the data are well described by @xmath21 ( indicated by the solid line a ) , and for large volumes by @xmath22 ( indicated by the solid line b ) .",
    "open circles show previous data obtained by directly measuring the cooling time @xmath23 of 0.2 and 0.8 @xmath1l drops using a thermocouple ( teng and moffat , 1998 ) .",
    "they are in good agreement with our data , confirming the validity of our measurements even at the shortest cooling times we measured .",
    "the simple method of optical observation ( mcferrin and snell , 2002 ) proved remarkably effective for vitreous / polycrystalline phase identification of cpa solutions over the four - order - of - magnitude volume range explored .",
    "this method gives an upper bound on the width of the transition region between polycrystalline and vitreous phases of @xmath24 w / v .",
    "x - ray measurements on 100 nl glycerol - containing drops further narrow the span of this transition region to less than @xmath2 w / v , corresponding to @xmath25 of the @xmath26 critical concentration .",
    "the number of water molecules per glycerol molecule thus changes from 11.7 at the resolved upper concentration limit of the polycrystalline phase to 10.8 at the resolved lower limit of the vitreous phase , for the cooling rate achieved in the 100 nl drop .",
    "the cubic crystalline form of ice is not observed during slow cooling of water or water - glycerol solutions . for pure water , cubic ice",
    "is formed by warming vitreous ice above water s glass transition temperature @xmath27 .",
    "usually cubic ice then converts to hexagonal ice at a higher temperature , so there is a thermotropic ( temperature - dependent ) cubic - to - hexagonal transition ( dowell and ringfret , 1960 ; murray et al . , 2005 ) . in our experiments",
    "we observe a robust lyotropic ( concentration - dependent ) cubic - to - hexagonal transition , controlled by the glycerol concentration . for both the 200 pl and 100 nl drops ,",
    "the cubic phase is achieved on flash cooling over a wide glycerol concentration range , suggesting that the cubic ice phase is kinetically favored during flash cooling and/or that the presence of glycerol modifies the preferred equilibrium ice structure . a similar transition sequence from vitreous to cubic to hexagonal ice during flash cooling has been observed as a function of sucrose concentration ( lepault et al . , 1997 ) .",
    "for most cpas in figure 3 , the measured variation of the critical concentration c separating vitreous and polycrystalline phases with drop volume shows three regimes . at large volumes and thus slow cooling rates , the critical concentration for all cpas is nearly constant .",
    "this is consistent with @xmath28 ( rasmussen and luyet , 1970 ; fahy et al . , 1984 ) , where @xmath6 is the minimum cpa concentration for which homogeneous crystal nucleation is completely inhibited and the liquid phase cools directly into the vitreous phase , regardless of cooling rate .",
    "at intermediate volumes , the critical cpa concentration shows a sharp decrease with decreasing volume . the cooling rate increases with decreasing volume , which reduces the time during which nucleation and growth of crystalline ice can occur .",
    "for a given cpa concentration , the vitreous phase is kinetically favored beyond a critical cooling rate .",
    "recent measurements ( chinte et al . , 2005 ) on mixtures of glycerol and crystal screen solutions placed in three sizes of cryoloops ( of decreasing but ill - defined volume ) show a similar trend of decreasing critical glycerol concentration with decreasing volume . an important exception to this general behavior",
    "is provided by higher molecular weight pegs , which show little or no decrease in concentration with volume .",
    "the large volume / slow cooling rate critical concentration @xmath6 in mg / ml (  monomers per unit volume ) is roughly the same for the various chain lengths , but the shorter chains are more effective in suppressing ice formation at smaller volumes / larger cooling rates .",
    "this latter trend is consistent with garman s observation for @xmath29 @xmath1l drops that smaller @xmath30 pegs are more effective cryoprotectants ( garman and mitchell , 1996 ) .",
    "however , for small volumes @xmath31 @xmath1l ) the critical concentration levels off and saturates , contrary to naive expectations that smaller volumes should cool faster .",
    "this saturation could result either because @xmath32 the cooling rate saturates , or @xmath33 because a minimum amount of cryoprotectant is required to prevent crystalline ice formation , regardless of the cooling rate .",
    "the second of these hypotheses is inconsistent with experiments showing that pure water can be vitrified if cooling rates are large enough ( drop volumes are small enough ) ( angell , 2002 ) . as will be discussed elsewhere , to test the first of these hypotheses , cpa - containing drops were sprayed onto the bottom of small cups made from ultra - thin copper foil , which were then immersed in liquid nitrogen .",
    "heat transfer from the drop then occurs primarily via its contact with the copper rather than via nitrogen vapor or liquid . for volumes of @xmath34 @xmath1l ,",
    "the critical cpa concentrations measured in this way are a few percent lower than those in figure 3 , but show the same decrease with decreasing drop volume . however , unlike for drops directly plunged in liquid nitrogen , no plateau is observed at small volumes . instead ,",
    "the behavior observed at intermediate volumes continues to the smallest drops ( 1 pl ) measured .",
    "this suggests that a saturation in cooling rate is responsible for the small - volume plateau in figure 3 .",
    "the measurements of the boiling time in figure 5 can be used to determine the cooling rate as a function of drop volume .",
    "we define an average cooling rate @xmath35 as @xmath36 , where @xmath37 and @xmath23 is the time to cool to @xmath38 . assuming @xmath39 and noting that @xmath40 in our experiments is constant , figure 5 corresponds to a plot of the reciprocal cooling rate @xmath41 .    by combining @xmath42",
    "obtained from figure 5 with the critical concentration @xmath43 from figure 3 , we can eliminate the volume @xmath9 and obtain the minimum cryoprotectant concentration to achieve vitrification as a function of cooling rate , @xmath44 .",
    "this is the function of greatest intrinsic physical interest : @xmath43 depends on the cooling method ( gas stream versus liquid plunge ) and medium ( nitrogen , propane , ethane or helium ) , whereas @xmath44 is nominally independent of these parameters and directly connects to the microscopic kinetics responsible for glass formation .",
    "it can be used to determine the critical concentration for any cooling method , medium or sample volume . to obtain this function ,",
    "we use the fits @xmath21 for @xmath45 @xmath1l and @xmath22 for @xmath46 @xmath1l in figure 5 and @xmath47 for @xmath43 in figure 3 .",
    "we exclude data from the small volume saturation region .    this experimentally determined function for glycerol",
    "is shown in figure 6 .",
    "the black circles represent our data and the solid line is a guide to the eye . below the line",
    "the cooling rate and cryoprotectant concentration are too small to eliminate homogeneous nucleation of crystal ice , and above this line vitreous ice is obtained .",
    "figure 6 also shows previous data for the critical cooling rates for water - glycerol mixtures reported by sutton ( sutton , 1991a ; sutton , 1991b ) , indicated by the open circles , and by kresin and korber ( kresin and korber , 1991 ) , indicated by the open box .",
    "these data were obtained by dsc using surfactant - containing emulsions of glycerol - water drops .",
    "sutton s data in the low - cooling - rate , high - concentration region show an increase in critical concentration with decreasing cooling rate , in contrast to the clear plateau evident in our results .",
    "this discrepancy may be due to the surfactant , which may affect nucleation .",
    "on the other hand , kresin and korber s single data point at high cooling rates lies well above our data , suggesting either that the cooling rates actually achieved in their experiment were much lower than reported , or that assumptions in modelling the fraction of crystalline ice present within the vitreous phase were incorrect .",
    "the basic methods used in the present work - x - ray diffraction measurements ( garman and mitchell , 1996 ; mcferrin and snell , 2002 ; chinte et al . , 2005 ) and",
    "visual observations ( mcferrin and snell , 2002 ) - have been used in previous studies of the effects of cpas on vitrification of cryoprotective solutions used in protein crystallography .",
    "garman and mitchell determined glycerol concentrations required to vitrify 50 crystallization solutions from hampton research in a nitrogen cryostream at @xmath48 k. drops were mounted in single size @xmath49 mohair loops , and their volumes , although not reported , are estimated to be @xmath50 @xmath1l .",
    "mcferrin and snell extended garman and mitchell s experiments to determine critical concentrations of four cpas ( glycerol , peg 400 , ethylene glycol and propylene glycol ) required to vitrify 98 different crystallization solutions from hampton research , using 0.7 - 1 mm cryoloops and nitrogen cryostream cooling .",
    "the critical concentrations determined for the single volume examined in both these studies for drops containing a single cryoprotectant are consistent with the present results , although the present results provide better resolution ( @xmath2 w / v vs. @xmath51 w / v ) .",
    "recently , chinte et al . , ( 2005 ) used cryoloops of sizes of 1 , 0.5 , and 0.1 mm to again determine critical glycerol conditions in a t=100 k nitrogen cryostream , for 12 different crystallization solutions from hampton research .",
    "sample volumes were not measured , but the expected decrease in critical glycerol concentration with loop size was observed .",
    "we have described the first quantitative and systematic measurements of critical cryoprotectant concentrations for plunge cooling in liquid nitrogen in the volume range relevant to cryocrystallography and to the cryopreservation of small numbers of cells . for most of the fourteen cpas",
    "examined , the critical cpa concentration is constant at large volumes , decreases strongly with decreasing volume for intermediate volumes , and then has a plateau at small volumes .",
    "we have combined these measurements of critical concentration versus volume with measurements of cooling times versus volume to obtain the quantity of greatest intrinsic physical interest in flash cooling : the minimum cpa concentration for vitrification versus cooling rate .",
    "our results can be used to develop more rational approaches to cryopreservation of protein crystals and other biological samples .",
    "they also provide a starting point for understanding the physics of flash cooling and vitrification of aqueous cryoprotectant mixtures .",
    "the authors would like to thank dr .",
    "jan kmetko , eugene kalinin , and dr .",
    "angela toms for their assistance in operating the x - ray diffractometer and in interpreting the resulting images .",
    "this work was funded by the national institute of health ( r01 gm65981 ) .",
    "figure 1 + flash - cooled glycerol solutions above and below the critical concentration for vitrification .",
    "a ) 500 nl of @xmath52 w / v glycerol on a tungsten loop ; b ) 500 nl of @xmath53 w / v glycerol on a tungsten loop ; c ) 50 nl of @xmath54 w / v glycerol on a 500 @xmath1 m micromount ; d ) 50 nl of @xmath55 w / v glycerol on a 500 @xmath1 m micromount .",
    "the critical concentrations for 500 nl and 50 nl are @xmath20 w / v and @xmath56 w / v , respectively .",
    "the bar represents 500 @xmath1 m .",
    "+ figure 2 + x - ray diffraction images above and below the critical concentration of glycerol .",
    "the images on the left are from a 200 pl volume in a 100 @xmath1 m micromount .",
    "the images on the right are from a 100 nl volume in a 0.5 mm hampton cryoloop .",
    "the rings marked @xmath16 and @xmath17 are located at 2.24 @xmath15 and 3.70 @xmath15 , respectively .",
    "the innermost ring spanning 6.5 @xmath15 to 8.0 @xmath15 in the 200 pl images is from the micromount , and is visible because of the very small sample volume and area within the much larger area of the x - ray beam .",
    "+ figure 3 + linear and semi - logarithmic plots of the critical concentration for vitreous ice formation for 14 cryoprotectants .",
    "closed squares represent : peg200 ( a , b ) , xylitol ( c , d ) , glycerol ( e , f ) , and dmso ( g , h ) ; open squares represent : ethylene glycol ( a , b ) and sucrose ( c , d ) ; closed triangles represent : peg 20,000 ( a , b ) , trehalose ( c , d ) , isopropanol ( e , f ) , and nacl ( g , h ) ; open triangles represent : peg 2000 ( a , b ) , dextrose ( c , d ) , methanol ( e , f ) , and mpd ( g , h ) . + figure 4 + normalized x - ray diffraction intensity versus d - spacing of 100 nl flash - cooled drops containing glycerol concentrations of a ) @xmath57 w / v , b ) @xmath26 w / v , c ) @xmath54 w / v , and d ) @xmath58 w / v .",
    "curve @xmath59 corresponds to the vitreous ( transparent ) phase ; curve @xmath60 is close to vitreous ice - crystalline ice transition ; curve @xmath61 corresponds to cubic ice or a cubic ice - vitreous ice mixture ; and curve @xmath62 corresponds to hexagonal ice .",
    "+ figure 5 + boiling time versus drop volume for pure water plunged in liquid nitrogen on linear and ( inset ) log - log scales . each point ( solid circle )",
    "represents the average of three independent measurements , with an average residual of @xmath63 .",
    "open circles correspond to data from teng and moffat ( 1998 ) for 0.2 and 0.8 @xmath1l drops plunge cooled in ln2 .",
    "the fit @xmath59 to data at moderate volumes corresponds to @xmath21 , and the fit @xmath60 to data at large volumes to @xmath22 , respectively .",
    "+ figure 6 + critical concentration versus cooling rate for glycerol on semilog and ( inset ) linear scales .",
    "solid circles are from the present measurements , and open circles and boxes are from dsc measurements of sutton ( 1991 ) and kresin and korber ( 1991 ) .",
    "the solid line is a guide to the eye .",
    "+        chayen , n. e. , boggon , t. j. , cassetta , a. , deacon , a. , gleichmann , t. , habash , j. , harrop , s. j. , helliwell , j. r. , nieh , y. p. , peterson , m. r. , raftery , j. , snell , e. h. , hadener , a. , niemann , a. c. , siddons , d. p. , stojanoff , v. , thompson , a. w. , ursby , t. and wulff , m. ( 1996 ) .",
    "* 29 * , 227 - 278 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> vitrification of aqueous cryoprotectant mixtures is essential in cryopreservation of proteins and other biological samples . </S>",
    "<S> we report systematic measurements of critical cryoprotective agent ( cpa ) concentrations required for vitrification during plunge cooling from t=295 k to t=77 k in liquid nitrogen . </S>",
    "<S> measurements on fourteen common cpas including alcohols ( glycerol , methanol , isopropanol ) , sugars ( sucrose , xylitol , dextrose , trehalose ) , pegs ( ethylene glycol , peg 200 , peg 2 000 , peg 20 000 ) , glycols ( dmso , mpd ) , and salt ( nacl ) were performed for volumes ranging over four orders of magnitude from @xmath0 nl to 20 @xmath1l , and covering the range of interest in protein crystallography . </S>",
    "<S> x - ray diffraction measurements on aqueous glycerol mixtures confirm that the polycrystalline - to - vitreous transition occurs within a span of less than @xmath2 w / v in cpa concentration , and that the form of polycrystalline ice ( hexagonal or cubic ) depends on cpa concentration and cooling rate . for most of the studied cryoprotectants , the critical concentration decreases strongly with volume in the range from  5 @xmath1l to  0.1 @xmath1l , typically by a factor of two . by combining measurements of the critical concentration versus volume with cooling time versus volume </S>",
    "<S> , we obtain the function of greatest intrinsic physical interest : the critical cpa concentration versus cooling rate during flash cooling . </S>",
    "<S> these results provide a basis for more rational design of cryoprotective protocols , and should yield insight into the physics of glass formation in aqueous mixtures . </S>"
  ]
}