{
  "article_text": [
    "in the past 45 years , the aharonov - bohm phase shift@xcite has passed from a surprising novelty into a standard part of the quantum mechanical textbook and research literature.@xcite  yet the nature of the effect may well be misunderstood .",
    "aharonov and bohm@xcite attracted attention to the phase shift , which had been suggested earlier by ehrenberg and siday,@xcite by claiming that the effect involved a new role for the electromagnetic potentials in quantum as compared to classical physics , and that the phase shift arose as a quantum topological effect occurring in the absence of classical electromagnetic forces .",
    "a contrary view has also been urged.@xcite  it has been suggested that the experimentally observed phase shift results from a lag effect involving classical electromagnetic forces .  although the aharonov - bohm phase shift itself has been well verified experimentally ,",
    "there is no experimental evidence indicating whether or not the effect involves classical forces and velocity changes.@xcite  the support for the quantum topological nature of the shift comes only from theoretical arguments which claim that classical electromagnetic forces can not possibly cause the phase shift .",
    "however , it has been suggested repeatedly that electromagnetic theory actually supports exactly the contrary view .",
    "now at last , the forces involved are identified in some detail in the discussion of the following paper.@xcite  the observed phase shift can indeed be accounted for by a semiclassical analysis based upon a classical electromagnetic lag effect .",
    "therefore it is now time for further experiments measuring aspects of the phase shift which differ between the two alternative explanations .",
    "the basic classical electromagnetic interaction involved in the aharonov - bohm phase shift involves a point charge and a magnet .",
    "such an interaction was discussed in 1968 in an often - quoted paper by coleman and van vleck,@xcite `` origin of hidden momentum forces on magnets . ''",
    "the authors used the darwin lagrangian to treat the interaction to order @xmath0 .",
    "their discussion centers on the paradox of shockley and james@xcite involving a changing magnetic moment which leads to an easily identifiable force on an external charge , and yet there seems to be no force back on the magnet .",
    "momentum conservation seems to fail .",
    "the situation discussed by coleman and van vleck seems remarkably similar to the situation of the aharonov - bohm phase shift involving charged particles passing a magnetic solenoid or toroid .",
    "because a moving charged particle causes a magnetic field , it puts an easily identifiable lorentz force on the currents of the magnet , and yet for a toroid or long solenoid there seems to be no force back on the passing charge .  in both cases ,",
    "the same fundamental interaction between a charged particle and a magnet is involved .",
    "indeed , coleman and van vleck have provided some aspects needed to understand the classical electromagnetic lag connected with the aharonov - bohm phase shift .    in this article",
    ", we point out the classical electromagnetic energy and momentum changes which must be accounted for in understanding the classical electromagnetic aspects of the aharonov - bohm situation .  in the following article,@xcite we turn to a classical hydrogen atom as a model of a magnetic moment and",
    "treat its interaction with a passing charge using the darwin lagrangian , illustrating in detail aspects of the coleman - van vleck analysis and the forces associated with the energy and momentum changes ; then we comment on the passage to a many - particle situation for the case of a magnetic toroid configuration .",
    "the aharonov - bohm situation involves a point charge moving past a magnet in the form of a long solenoid or toroid .",
    "let us imagine that external forces are applied to the charges carrying the currents of the magnet and also to the passing charge @xmath1 so that the non - interacting motions are preserved despite the interaction of the magnet and the charge due to their electromagnetic fields .",
    "as shown previously,@xcite the net work @xmath2 done by the external forces provides the energy of overlap of the magnetic field of the passing charge and the magnet , and also the net impulse @xmath3 delivered by the external forces accounts for the change in linear momentum in the electromagnetic fields .",
    "these relations take the form@xmath4@xmath5 where @xmath6 is the vector potential in the coulomb gauge of the magnet evaluated at the position @xmath7 of the passing charge .",
    "thus the aharonov - bohm situation involves energy and momentum changes which can be associated with the vector potential of the magnet .",
    "of course , an experimental situation does not involve external forces which maintain the currents constant and the distant particle at constant velocity .",
    "thus the crucial question is just how do  the currents and particle velocity change so as to give energy and momentum conservation and also constant motion of the system center of energy .  in the following article",
    ", we analyze this problem in a simple model for a magnetic moment , and then discuss the multiparticle limit to form a toroid .",
    "we suggest that the charge and current densities of the magnet change in such a way as to screen the passing electric field out of the magnet and to produce an electric field back at the passing charge which changes the velocity of the passing charge as@xmath8 as shown in the following article , these changes are consistent with ideas of conservation of energy , of linear momentum , and for constant motion of the center of energy .",
    "furthermore , the net lorentz forces between the toroid and passing charge satisfy newton s third law .",
    "the result in eq . ( 3 ) is also exactly what is required to account for the aharonov - bohm phase shift as a classical electromagnetic lag effect .  a point charge moving with initial velocity",
    "@xmath9 down the axis of a toroid will suffer a relative displacement compared to a point charge which passes outside the toroid and experiences no forces .",
    "the relative displacement in the direction of motion when the point charge passes through the toroid can be found by integrating the magnitude of the velocity change @xmath10 in eq .",
    "( 3 ) , taken here as in the @xmath11-direction , @xmath12 the semiclassical phase shift @xmath13 associated with this relative lag is therefore@xmath14 where @xmath15 is the magnetic flux enclosed in a path around the toroid .  here",
    "we have used @xmath16 and can imagine closing the path of integration along a curve which passes outside and far from the toroid .  the same phase shift in eq .",
    "( 6 ) was predicted by aharonov and bohm,@xcite and is observed experimentally.@xcite",
    "the aharonov - bohm phase shift involves the shift of the double - slit electron interference pattern inside an undisplaced single - slit pattern@xcite as shown in fig . 1 .",
    "the electron beams pass around a solenoid ( or toroid ) , and the shift of the double - slit pattern is proportional to the magnetic flux enclosed .  according to aharonov and bohm,@xcite",
    "the phase shift is a quantum topological effect and involves no forces on the passing electrons and no velocity changes of the electrons .",
    "the alternative classical - based explanation@xcite views the phase shift as analogous to placing a piece of glass behind one slit of a double - slit optical interference experiment , with the phase shift occurring because of a time lag between the transit times for the two beams .",
    "this situation is shown in fig .",
    "2 .  in the classical - based explanation of the aharonov - bohm phase shift",
    ", there is a relative lag between the electrons passing through the two different slits based upon classical forces which slow the electrons differently on the opposite sides of the solenoid .",
    "an exactly analogous phase shift due to the electrostatic forces of a line of electric dipoles was observed experimentally by matteucci and pozzi@xcite and is sketched in fig .",
    "the electrostatic phase shift clearly involves velocity changes due to electrostatic forces , analogous to the situation of the optical phase shift in fig .",
    "it is now time for experiments which do not simply verify the existence of the aharonov - bohm phase shift , but rather which test whether or not the phase shift involves velocity changes for the electrons .",
    "one possible experimental test looks for a breakdown of the double - slit interference pattern at large magnetic flux .  according to aharonov and bohm",
    "s view , the magnetic flux in the solenoid can be made arbitrarily large and the double - slit phase shift will never break down .  according to the lag view ( again in analogy with classical optics where a wave passing through a piece of glass suffers a velocity change ) , if the relative lag between the beams becomes larger than the coherence length , then the double - slit  interference pattern will indeed break down .",
    "testing for this break - down of the interference pattern at large flux seems a feasible experiment ; a large magnetic flux can be inserted between the electron beams either by the use of many solenoids or a solenoid of very large flux .",
    "i know of no other aspect of optics or wave - aspects of particles where a phase shift is claimed to occur without any other change whatsoever in the system .",
    "if experiments show that there are no velocity changes involved in the aharonov - bohm phase shift , then nature is indeed revealing an important nonclassical aspect .",
    "if there are velocity changes corresponding to a lag effect , as i believe is overwhelmingly likely , then the quantum topological interpretation is untenable , and the phase shift is consistent with an unfamiliar aspect of classical electromagnetic theory .",
    "i wish to thank mrs .",
    "laurette b. fisher for her assistance with the diagrams .",
    "fig . 1 .  the aharonov - bohm phase shift .",
    "the double - slit interference pattern of charged particles arriving at a distant screen is shifted by a long solenoid ( a line of magnetic dipoles ) inserted between the beams .",
    "the mechanism for the shift is in dispute .  at present",
    "it is not known whether or not the passing particles experience velocity changes associated with the interference pattern shift .    fig .",
    "2 . optical phase shift due to a lag effect .",
    "the double - slit interference pattern on a distant screen is shifted when a piece of glass is introduced behind one of the slits .",
    "the waves passing through the glass are slowed down by the piece of glass .",
    "3 . the matteucci - pozzi phase shift .",
    "the double - slit interference pattern of charged particles arriving at a distant screen is shifted by a pair of line charges ( a line of electric dipoles ) inserted between the beams .",
    "the difference in the time order of the electrostatic forces experienced by the charges passing through the two slits leads to an electrostatic lag effect which accounts for the interference pattern shift.@xcite        see , for example , d. j. griffiths , _ introduction to quantum mechanics _ , ( prentice hall , upper saddle river , new jersey 1995 ) , pp .",
    "343 - 349 or j. j. sakurai , _ modern quantum mechanics _ , revised edn .",
    "( addison - wesley , reading , ma 1994 ) , pp . 136 - 139 , 472 - 473 .",
    "b. liebowitz , `` significance of the aharonov - bohm effect , '' nuovo cimento * 38 * , 932 - 950 ( 1965 ) ; `` significance of the aharonov - bohm effect .",
    "rebuttal of a criticism , '' * 46b * , 125 - 127 ( 1966 ) .",
    "t. h. boyer , `` classical electromagnetic deflections and lag effects associated with quantum interference pattern shifts : considerations related to the aharonov - bohm effect , '' phys .",
    "d * 8 * , 1679 - 1693 ( 1973 ) ; t. h. boyer , `` the aharonov - bohm effect as a classical electromagnetic - lag effect : an electrostatic analogue and possible experimental test , '' il nuovo cimento * 100b * , 685 - 701 ( 1987 ) ; t. h. boyer , `` semiclassical explanation of the matteucci - pozzi and aharonov - bohm phase shifts , '' found .",
    "phys . * 32 * , 41 - 49 ( 2002 ) .",
    "the work by b. liebowitz sees a need for new non - lorentzian forces in order to explain the aharonov - bohm phase shift .",
    "my own work is entirely within the context of conventional classical electromagnetic theory .",
    "none of the experiments to date have investigated whether or not the phase shifts are due to velocity changes .",
    "indeed , an analogous phase shift ( but clearly based upon easily - understood classical electrostatic forces ) arises for the experimentally - observed matteucci - pozzi phase shift due to a line of electric dipoles , g. matteucci and g. pozzi , `` new diffraction experiment on the electrostatic aharonov - bohm effect , '' phys .",
    "54 , 2469 - 2470 ( 1985 ) .",
    "t. h. boyer , `` darwin - lagrangian analysis for the interaction of a point charge and a magnet : considerations related to the controversy regarding the aharonov - bohm and aharonov - casher phases shifts , '' submitted for publication .",
    "the phase shift was first observed by r. g. chambers , `` shift of an electron interference pattern by enclosed magnetic flux , '' phys .",
    "lett . * 5 * , 3 - 5 ( 1960 ) .",
    "m. peshkin and a. tonomura , _ the aharonov - bohm effect , _ lecture notes in physics , vol .",
    "340 ( springer , new york 1989 ) give extensive references to the experimental tests .    the form taken by the phase shift",
    "is sometimes presented incorrectly , as for example in _ the feynman lectures on physics _",
    "( addison - wesley , reading mass . , 1964 ) , vol .",
    "ii , sec . 15 - 5 .  see , for example , t. h. boyer , `` misinterpretation of the aharonov - bohm effect , '' am .",
    "* 40 * , 56 - 59 ( 1972 ) , or r. j. cook , h. fearn , and p. w. milonni , `` fizeau s experiment and the aharonov - bohm effect , '' am .",
    "* 63 * , 705 - 710 ( 1995 ) .",
    "see g. matteucci and g. pozzi , `` new diffraction experiment on the electrostatic aharonov - bohm effect , '' phys .",
    "54 , 2469 - 2470 ( 1985 ) and t. h. boyer , `` semiclassical explanation of the matteucci - pozzi and aharonov - bohm phase shifts , '' found .",
    "phys . * 32 * , 41 - 49 ( 2002 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the classical electromagnetic lag associated with the aharonov - bohm phase shift is obtained by using a darwin - lagrangian analysis similar to that given by coleman and van vleck to identify the puzzling forces of the shockley - james paradox .  </S>",
    "<S> the classical forces cause changes in particle velocities and so produce a relative lag leading to the same phase shift as predicted by aharonov and bohm and observed in experiments .  </S>",
    "<S> an experiment is proposed to test for this lag aspect implied by the classical analysis but not present in the currently - accepted quantum topological description of the phase shift . </S>"
  ]
}