{
  "article_text": [
    "the topology or inherent shape and form of an object is important . in data analysis ,",
    "the inherent form and structure of data clouds are important .",
    "quite a few models of data form and structure are used in data analysis .",
    "one of them is a hierarchically embedded set of clusters ,  a hierarchy .",
    "it is traditional ( since at least the 1960s ) to impose such a form on data , and if useful to assess the goodness of fit . rather than fitting a hierarchical structure to data ( e.g. , @xcite ) ,",
    "our recent work has taken a different orientation : we seek to find ( partial or global ) inherent hierarchical structure in data .",
    "as we will describe in this article , there are interesting findings that result from this , and some very interesting perspectives are opened up for data analysis and , potentially , perspectives also on the physics ( or causal or generative mechanisms ) underlying the data .    a formal definition of hierarchical structure is provided by ultrametric topology ( in turn , related closely to p - adic number theory ) .",
    "we will return to this in section [ sect23 ] below .",
    "first , though , we will summarize some of our findings .",
    "ultrametricity is a pervasive property of observational data .",
    "it arises as a limit case when data dimensionality or sparsity grows .",
    "more strictly such a limit case is a regular lattice structure and ultrametricity is one possible representation for it .",
    "notwithstanding alternative representations , ultrametricity offers computational efficiency ( related to tree depth / height being logarithmic in number of terminal nodes ) , linkage with dynamical or related functional properties ( phylogenetic interpretation ) , and processing tools based on well known p - adic or ultrametric theory ( examples : deriving a partition , or applying an ultrametric wavelet transform ) . in @xcite and other works , khrennikov has pointed to the importance of ultrametric topological analysis .",
    "local ultrametricity is also of importance .",
    "this can be used for forensic data exploration ( fingerprinting data sets ) : see @xcite and @xcite ; and to expedite search and discovery in information spaces : see @xcite as discussed by us in @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite .    in section [ sect23 ]",
    "we show how extent of ultrametricity is measured .",
    "section [ sect3 ] presents our main results on the remarkable properties of very high dimensional , or very sparse , spaces . as dimensionality or sparsity",
    "grow , so does the inherent hierarchical nature of the data in the space . in section [ hfda ]",
    "we then discuss application to very high frequency time series modeling .",
    "summarizing a full description in murtagh @xcite we explored two measures quantifying how ultrametric a data set is , ",
    "lerman s and a new approach based on triangle invariance ( respectively , the second and third approaches described in this section ) .",
    "the triangular inequality holds for a metric space : @xmath0 for any triplet of points @xmath1 .",
    "in addition the properties of symmetry and positive definiteness are respected .",
    "the `` strong triangular inequality '' or ultrametric inequality is : @xmath2 for any triplet @xmath1 .",
    "an ultrametric space implies respect for a range of stringent properties .",
    "for example , the triangle formed by any triplet is necessarily isosceles , with the two large sides equal ; or is equilateral .    *",
    "firstly , rammal et al .",
    "@xcite used discrepancy between each pairwise distance and the corresponding subdominant ultrametric .",
    "now , the subdominant ultrametric is also known as the ultrametric distance resulting from the single linkage agglomerative hierarchical clustering method .",
    "closely related graph structures include the minimal spanning tree , and graph ( connected ) components . while the subdominant provides a good fit to the given distance ( or indeed dissimilarity ) , it suffers from the `` friends of friends '' or chaining effect . *",
    "secondly , lerman @xcite developed a measure of ultrametricity , termed h - classifiability , using ranks of all pairwise given distances ( or dissimilarities ) .",
    "the isosceles ( with small base ) or equilateral requirements of the ultrametric inequality impose constraints on the ranks .",
    "the interval between median and maximum rank of every set of triplets must be empty for ultrametricity .",
    "we have used extensively lerman s measure of degree of ultrametricity in a data set .",
    "taking ranks provides scale invariance .",
    "but the limitation of lerman s approach , we find , is that it is not reasonable to study ranks of real - valued ( values in non - negative reals ) distances defined on a large set of points . *",
    "thirdly , our own measure of extent of ultrametricity @xcite can be described algorithmically .",
    "we examine triplets of points ( exhaustively if possible , or otherwise through sampling ) , and determine the three angles formed by the associated triangle .",
    "we select the smallest angle formed by the triplet points",
    ". then we check if the other two remaining angles are approximately equal .",
    "if they are equal then our triangle is isosceles with small base , or equilateral ( when all triangles are equal ) .",
    "the approximation to equality is given by 2 degrees ( 0.0349 radians ) .",
    "our motivation for the approximate ( `` fuzzy '' ) equality is that it makes our approach robust and independent of measurement precision .",
    "a supposition for use of our measure of ultrametricity is that we can can define angles ( and hence triangle properties ) .",
    "this in turn presupposes a scalar product .",
    "thus we presuppose a complete normed vector space with a scalar product  a hilbert space  to provide our needed environment .",
    "quite a general way to embed data , to be analyzed , in a euclidean space , is to use correspondence analysis @xcite .",
    "this explains our interest in using correspondence analysis : it provides a convenient and versatile way to take input data in many varied formats ( e.g. , ranks or scores , presence / absence , frequency of occurrence , and many other forms of data ) and map them into a euclidean , factor space .",
    "murtagh @xcite , and earlier work by rammal et al .",
    "@xcite , has demonstrated the pervasiveness of ultrametricity , by focusing on the fact that sparse high - dimensional data tend to be ultrametric . in such work",
    "it is shown how numbers of points in our clouds of data points are irrelevant ; but what counts is the ambient spatial dimensionality . among cases looked at",
    "are statistically uniformly ( hence `` unclustered '' , or without structure in a certain sense ) distributed points , and statistically uniformly distributed hypercube vertices ( so the latter are random 0/1 valued vectors ) . using our ultrametricity measure , there is a clear tendency to ultrametricity as the spatial dimensionality ( hence spatial sparseness ) increases .    as @xcite also show , gaussian data behave in the same way and a demonstration of this is seen in table [ tabunifgauss ] .",
    "to provide an idea of consensus of these results , the 200,000-dimensional gaussian was repeated and yielded on successive runs values of the ultrametricity measure of : 0.96 , 0.98 , 0.96 .",
    ".typical results , based on 300 sampled triangles from triplets of points . for uniform , the data are generated on [ 0 , 1 ] ; hypercube vertices are in @xmath3 , and for gaussian , the data are of mean 0 , and variance 1 .",
    "dimen . is the ambient dimensionality .",
    "isosc . is the number of isosceles triangles with small base , as a proportion of all triangles sampled .",
    "equil . is the number of equilateral triangles as a proportion of triangles sampled .",
    "um is the proportion of ultrametricity - respecting triangles (= 1 for all ultrametric ) . [ cols=\"<,<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]         we find clearly distinguishable peaks in figure [ fig10 ] .",
    "the lower and the higher peaks belong to the two arima components .",
    "the central peak belongs to the inter - cluster distances .",
    "we have shown that our methodology can be of use for time series segmentation and for model identifiability .",
    "we will assess this further in future work .",
    "given the use of a hilbert space as the essential springboard of all aspects of this work , it would appear that generalization of this work to multivariate time series analysis is straightforward .",
    "what remains important , however , is the availability of very large embedding dimensionalities , i.e.  very high frequency data streams .",
    "what we have observed in all of this work is that in the limit of high dimensionality a hilbert space becomes ultrametric .",
    "it has been our aim in this work to link observed data with an ultrametric topology for such data . the traditional approach in data analysis , of course ,",
    "is to impose structure on the data .",
    "this is done , for example , by using some agglomerative hierarchical clustering algorithm .",
    "we can always do this ( modulo distance or other ties in the data ) .",
    "then we can assess the degree of fit of such a ( tree or other ) structure to our data .",
    "for our purposes , here , this is unsatisfactory .",
    "* firstly , our aim was to show that ultrametricity can be naturally present in our data , globally or locally .",
    "we did not want any `` measuring tool '' such as an agglomerative hierarchical clustering algorithm to overly influence this finding .",
    "( unfortunately @xcite suffers from precisely this unhelpful influence of the `` measuring tool '' of the subdominant ultrametric .",
    "in other respects , @xcite is a seminal paper . ) * secondly , let us assume that we did use hierarchical clustering , and then based our discussion around the goodness of fit .",
    "this again is a traditional approach used in data analysis , and in statistical data modeling .",
    "but such a discussion would have been unnecessary and futile . for , after all , if we have ultrametric properties in our data then many of the widely used hierarchical clustering algorithms will give precisely the same outcome , and furthermore the fit is by definition optimal .",
    "we have described an application of this work to very high frequency signal processing .",
    "the twin objectives are signal segmentation , and model identification .",
    "we have noted that a considerable amount of this work is model - based : we require assumptions ( on clusters , and on model(s ) ) for identifiability .",
    "motivation for this work includes the availability of very high frequency data streams in various fields ( physics , engineering , finance , meteorology , bio - engineering , and bio - medicine ) . by using a very large embedding dimensionality",
    ", we are approaching the data analysis on a very gross scale , and hence furnishing a particular type of multiresolution analysis . that this is worthwhile has been shown in our case studies .",
    "f. murtagh , from data to the physics using ultrametrics : new results in high dimensional data analysis , in a.yu .",
    "khrennikov , z. raki and i.v .",
    "volovich , eds . , p - adic mathematical physics , american institute of physics conf",
    ".  proc .",
    "826 , 151161 , 2006 .",
    "r. rammal , g. toulouse and m.a .",
    "virasoro , ultrametricity for physicists , reviews of modern physics , 58 , 765788 , 1986 .",
    "rohlf and d.r .",
    "fisher , tests for hierarchical structure in random data sets , systematic zoology , 17 , 407412 , 1968 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> an ultrametric topology formalizes the notion of hierarchical structure . </S>",
    "<S> an ultrametric embedding , referred to here as ultrametricity , is implied by a natural hierarchical embedding . </S>",
    "<S> such hierarchical structure can be global in the data set , or local . by quantifying extent or degree of ultrametricity in a data set , </S>",
    "<S> we show that ultrametricity becomes pervasive as dimensionality and/or spatial sparsity increases . </S>",
    "<S> this leads us to assert that very high dimensional data are of simple structure . </S>",
    "<S> we exemplify this finding through a range of simulated data cases . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss also application to very high frequency time series segmentation and modeling .    </S>",
    "<S> pacs : 02.50.-r , 05.45.tp , 89.65.gh , 89.20.-a </S>"
  ]
}