{
  "article_text": [
    "half wave plate ( ) retarders are used extensively for polarimetric measurements .",
    "the technique is used across a broad range of electro - magnetic frequencies because it provides an effective way to discriminate against systematic errors .",
    "the modulation efficiency of a  that is constructed from a single birefringent plate can reach 100% for a set of discrete electro - magnetic frequencies but away from these frequencies the efficiency drops rapidly . to overcome this limitation",
    "it has been proposed to stack several birefringent plates with specific relative angles of their optical axes  @xcite .",
    "such a construction has been called achromatic  ( ) because it has a broader frequency range over which the polarimetric efficiency is high compared to a  that is made from a single plate .",
    "the efficiency of an  depends on the number of plates in the stack and on their relative angles .",
    "the concept has been demonstrated experimentally in the optical and ir bands  @xcite .",
    "murray et  al .",
    "@xcite have described briefly measurements of an  made of 5 quartz plates for wavelengths between 350 and 850 @xmath2 m and an  made of 3 quartz plates for wavelengths between 1 and 2  mm .",
    "no detailed information is given about the measurements , the analysis , tests for systematic errors , or about the optimization of the  in respect to the relative angles between the plates .",
    "a 2-element achromatic waveguide polarizers for operation at @xmath31  cm is mentioned by leitch et al .",
    "@xcite .",
    "in this paper we present the construction of a sapphire  and measurements of its properties at a wavelength of 2.7  mm ( 110  ghz ) .",
    "we also present an analysis of the design of a three - plate sapphire  for a wavelength of 2  mm .",
    "there is currently interest in an  that is suitable for the mm - wave band because of the increase in experimental efforts to measure the polarization of the cosmic microwave background radiation .",
    "several experiments will use s and increasing the bandwidth where the efficiency is high will increase the signal - to - noise ratio of the experiment .",
    "a top - view sketch of the experimental setup is shown in figure  [ fig : exp_setup ] .",
    "we used a gunn oscillator  @xcite at 110  ghz and a diode detector  @xcite as a source and detector of radiation , respectively .",
    "both source and detector had conical horns that provided beams of 12  degrees full width at half maximum .",
    "they emitted and were sensitive to linearly polarized radiation with a -15  db maximum level of cross polarization at @xmath310 degrees from peak gain .",
    "the source and detector were aligned by maximizing the signal received by the detector as a function of its orientation relative to the fixed orientation of the source .",
    "we used wire grid polarizers to increase the level of linear polarization of the light emitted by the source and detected by the detector .",
    "the grids , which were made by buckbee - meers , were measured to have a modulation efficiency of 97%  @xcite .    the source , detector , and polarizers were housed in metallic boxes that were lined inside ( outside ) with emerson and cuming eccosorb ls-16 ( ls-14 ) .",
    "one side of the boxes was open .    between the boxes",
    "were placed two 1.25  cm thick plates of emerson and cuming eccosorb mf-124 which served as collimators .",
    "they had 19  mm diameter knife - edged holes which faced the source .",
    "the knife edges were covered with 0.07  mm thick aluminum tape .",
    "the  was installed between the collimators in a 5  cm diameter newport mount that could rotate around the @xmath4 axis with a resolution of 1  degree .",
    "the mount was held by a cylindrical leg that gave it another degree of freedom for rotation around the @xmath5 axis .",
    "the beam filled the central 15% area of the .",
    "its angular extent when it reached the detector was 2  degrees .",
    "the entire experiment was mounted on a metallic optics bench .",
    "aluminum sheet metal lined with egg - crate eccosorb - cv3 enclosed the experiment from three sides .",
    "egg - crate eccosorb was also placed both in front and above the source and detector boxes , as shown in figure  [ fig : exp_setup ] .",
    "we used a stack of three sapphire a - cut plates to construct the .",
    "each of the fine ground plates had a thickness of @xmath6  mm , which made each a  for a frequency of 193  ghz .",
    "the three plates were mounted together with a front and back anti - reflection coating made of 0.35  mm thick polished herasil .",
    "the orientation of the second plate was rotated by 50.5  deg with respect to the orientation of the aligned first and third plates .",
    "we had an angular accuracy of @xmath7  degree in assembling the stack and an accuracy of @xmath8  degrees in orienting the stack - mount normal to the incoming beam .",
    "the ordinary and extraordinary axes of any of the plates were known to within 0.5  degree .",
    "we compared the performance of the  to the performance of a ` chromatic ' plate , a single a - cut plate of sapphire with a thickness of 2.32  mm .",
    "the chromatic plate was stacked with the same layers of anti - reflection coating as the .",
    "we used a frequency of 110  ghz to make the measurements because at this frequency the difference between the modulation efficiency of the  and of the single plate are nearly maximized thereby providing a clear demonstration of the achromaticity of the stack .",
    "to quantify the efficiency of the plates we measured the detected intensity as a function of their rotation angle @xmath9 about the @xmath4 axis .",
    "data were taken every 10  degree in angle and are shown in figure  [ fig : data ] .",
    "error bars are the standard deviation of 5 repeat measurements of the efficiency . a repeat measurement consisted of assembling all individual pieces into a stack , mounting the stack , and taking data .",
    "no changes in other elements in the experiment were made between repeat measurements .",
    "a constant offset of about 0.7  mv was measured when the aperture of the detector box was blocked and was subtracted from the data .",
    "this level was constant with rotation of the plates , between different independent measurements of a given stack , and between measurements with different stacks .",
    "the data was then fit with the following model d = _ i=0 ^ 8 a_i(i+ _ i ) .",
    "[ eqn : hwp_model ] the output of the fitting were the 9 amplitudes and 8 phases , where @xmath10 was set to zero .",
    "the modulation efficiency was defined as = a_4 a_0 .",
    "[ eqn : efficiency ] the value of @xmath11 did not change when we fit the data only up to the fourth harmonic ( 5 amplitudes and 4 phases ) .",
    "the quality of the fit however degraded from a reduced @xmath12 of 0.27 and 0.9 for the achromatic and chromatic plates , respectively , with 8 harmonics to 5.8 and 2.6 , respectively , with 4 harmonics .",
    "predictions about the efficiency of the plates were calculated using the technique of mueller matrices .",
    "the intensity of the light incident on the detector was generated by multiplying an incident stokes vector representing 100% @xmath13 polarized light by mueller matrices that simulated the response of the two anti - reflection layers , the plates , and a 100% @xmath13 polarized detector .",
    "an overall normalization was taken from a measurement of the power detected in the absence of a  in the light path .",
    "the phase was taken from the known orientation of the plates .",
    "normal incidence was assumed throughout .",
    "a prediction for the detected intensity was calculated as a function of @xmath9 in steps of 1  degree , fitted by the model given in equation  [ eqn : hwp_model ] , and a predicted efficiency was calculated using equation  [ eqn : efficiency ] .",
    "the predicted response of the plates as a function of angle is shown in figure  [ fig : data ] .",
    "the prediction shown is not a fit to the data .",
    "there are no free parameters in this prediction .",
    "figure  [ fig : efficiency ] shows the predicted efficiency of the chromatic and achromatic plates as a function of frequency and our measured values of @xmath14 and @xmath15 , respectively .",
    "the predicted values are 43.5% and 100% , respectively .",
    "uncertainty in the predicted values of the efficiency , due to uncertainty in the indices of sapphire  @xcite , is 1.5% for the single plate and negligible for the .",
    "the errors on the measurements of the modulation efficiency were calculated by summing the statistical and an estimate of the systematic errors in quadrature .",
    "we also measured the efficiency for angles of incidence that are not normal by tilting the  about the @xmath5 axis between angles of zero and 15 degrees .",
    "we found no change in the efficiency as a function of angle within statistical errors .",
    "spurious signals generated by reflections can be a source of systematic errors .",
    "we checked the level of signal detected by the detector when either of the collimators were blocked with metal or with a piece of eccosorb mf124 .",
    "the level was 0.7 mv for all cases and did not change as a function of the rotation angle of the plates in their mount .",
    "the experiment was repeated for various distances of the plates from the source .",
    "the efficiency of the single plate varied in a sinusoidal manner with position with an amplitude of 1.9 % and a period of 1.4 mm .",
    "this period is also half the wavelength of the source and we hypothesize that reflections in the setup cause the small variation in efficiency .",
    "we have also observed that the shape of the deviations between the theoretical prediction for the detected signal and the one measured vary as a function of the position of the plate .",
    "the data shown in figure  [ fig : data ] is representative of the magnitude of such deviations . for the achromatic plate the peak - to - peak changes in efficiency as a function of distance were smaller than the quoted statistical error .",
    "there is good agreement between each of the no - free - parameters predictions shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : data ] and the data . both the predicted overall modulation amplitude and the relative phase shift",
    "are reproduced by the measurements .",
    "the measured modulation efficiencies are close to the predicted values .",
    "s can be constructed with various combinations of birefringent plates each giving a different degree of achromaticity .",
    "title  @xcite showed that with 3 plates of the same material an  should have the first and last plates aligned and most of our discussion is restricted to such a stack .",
    "figure  [ fig : breadth_ripple ] shows the efficiency of an  made of three sapphire plates as a function of frequency and for three different orientations of the second plate .",
    "each of the plates is a  at odd harmonics of 50  ghz , suitable for a cosmic microwave background polarization experiment - ebex - that we are currently constructing .",
    "ebex will operate at 150 , 250 , 350 and 450  ghz .",
    "an orientation angle of 58  degrees gives close to a constant modulation efficiency over a band of @xmath340  ghz .",
    "a plate orientation angle of 47  degrees gives a band of @xmath360  ghz at the expense of variations of the efficiency within that band .",
    "it is therefore interesting to quantify the _ average _ modulation efficiency as a function of bandwidth and as a function of rotation angle of the second plate .",
    "the results are shown in figure  [ fig : contour ] for a top - hat frequency response and they demonstrate several features .",
    "the maximum average efficiency decreases as a function of bandwidth but with a proper choice of angle average efficiencies that are larger than 95% are achievable with up to 60  ghz of bandwidth .",
    "the angular precision required for the orientation of the second plate is rather coarse .",
    "the efficiency for 60  ghz of bandwidth is larger than 95% for any angle between 47 and 56  degrees .",
    "even smaller accuracy is required for narrower bandwidths .",
    "a stack of 5 plates can give high modulation efficiency over an even broader range of frequencies compared to a 3-stack ; see figures  [ fig:5stack ] and  [ fig:5stack_int ] . with an assumption of a top - hat frequency response of the instrument",
    "we calculate that for the balloon - borne ebex the penalty in increased absorption and emission from the thicker stack of sapphire plates would be smaller than the increase in signal and therefore a properly designed 5-stack would increase the signal - to - noise ratio of the experiment .",
    "interest in mm - wave  has increased recently because of the scientific interest in the polarization of the cosmic microwave background radiation .",
    "several experiments including our own ebex are proposing to use s as means to modulate the incident polarization  @xcite .",
    "the results presented in this paper provide reassurance that these experiments can rely on an  and that the efficiency of such a plate is constant for a relatively broad range of incidence angles .",
    "a.  m. title and w.  j. rosenberg . .",
    "in _ polarizers and applications , spie proceedings vol .",
    "307 . edited by giorgio b. trapani .",
    "bellingham , wa : society for photo - optical instrumentation engineers , 1981 .",
    ", p.120 _ , january 1981 .",
    "e.  m. leitch , j.  m. kovac , c.  pryke , j.  e. carlstrom , n.  w. halverson , w.  l. holzapfel , b.  reddall , and e.  s. sandberg .",
    "measurement of polarization with the degree angular scale interferometer .",
    ", 420:763 , december 2002 .",
    "astro - ph/0209476 .",
    "p.  oxley , p.  ade , c.  baccigalupi , p.  debernardis , h .-",
    "cho , m.  j. devlin , s.  hanany , b.  r. johnson , t.  jones , a.  t. lee , t.  matsumura , a.  d. miller , m.  milligan , t.  renbarger , h.  g. spieler , r.  stompoer , g.  s. tucker , and m.  zaldarriaga . .",
    "in w.  l. barnes and j.  j. butler , editors , _ earth observing systems ix : infrared spacebourne remote sensing _ , volume 5543 of _ proceedings of spie _ , pages 320331 , 2004 .",
    "s.  church , p.  ade , j.  bock , m.  bowden , j.  carlstrom , k.  ganga , w.  gear , j.  hinderks , w.  hu , b.  keating , j.  kovac , a.  lange , e.  leitch , o.  mallie , s.  melhuish , a.  murphy , b.  rusholme , c.  osullivan , l.  piccirillo , c.  pryke , a.  taylor , and k.  thompson . .",
    ", 47:10831089 , december 2003 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have constructed an achromatic half wave plate ( ahwp ) suitable for the millimeter wavelength band . </S>",
    "<S> the  was made from a stack of three sapphire a - cut birefringent plates with the optical axes of the middle plate rotated by 50.5  degrees with respect to the aligned axes of the other plates . </S>",
    "<S> the measured modulation efficiency of the  at 110  ghz was @xmath0% . </S>",
    "<S> in contrast , the modulation efficiency of a single sapphire plate of the same thickness was @xmath1% . </S>",
    "<S> both results are in close agreement with theoretical predictions . </S>",
    "<S> the modulation efficiency of the  was constant as a function of incidence angles between 0 and 15 degrees . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss design parameters of an  in the context of astrophysical broad band polarimetry at the millimeter wavelength band . </S>"
  ]
}