{
  "article_text": [
    "photomultipliers with a large area spherical photocathode are being widely used in many liquid scintillator and water cherenkov rare events detectors .",
    "all recently developed solar neutrino detectors , such as sno @xcite , kamiokande @xcite , kamland @xcite , borexino @xcite and its counting test facility @xcite , are based on the scintillation photons counting techniques .",
    "the interaction point in these detectors is reconstructed using timing information from a large number of pmts .",
    "depending on the precision of reconstruction and the total number of pmts the precision of single photoelectron detection at the level of 1 ns is demanded .",
    "the monte carlo simulation of the borexino detector showed that the mean number of photoelectrons ( p.e . )",
    "registered by one pmt in a scintillation event will be in the region @xmath0 for an event with energy of 250 - 800 kev .",
    "hence the pmts should demonstrate a good single electron performance .",
    "after preliminary tests , the etl 9351 with a large area photocathode ( 8  ) has been chosen @xcite .",
    "the pmt of this model has 12 dynodes with a total gain of @xmath1 .",
    "the transit time spread of the single p.e .",
    "response is @xmath2 ns . the pmt has a good energy resolution characterized by the manufacturer by the peak - to - valley ratio .",
    "the manufacturer ( electron tubes limited , etl ) guarantees a peak - to - valley ratio of 1.5 .",
    "the results of the preliminary tests with 50 pmts have been reported in @xcite .",
    "in the borexino programme the special pmt test facility was prepared at lngs .",
    "the test facility is placed in two adjacent rooms . in one room the electronics",
    "is mounted , and the other is a dark room with 4 tables designed to hold up to 64 pmts .",
    "the dark room is equipped with an earth s magnetic field compensation system using rectangular coils with an electric current ( @xcite ) .",
    "the non - uniformity of the compensated field in the plane of the tables is no more than @xmath3 .",
    "the tables are separated from each other by black shrouds , which screen any light reflected from the pmts photocathode .",
    "the simplified scheme of one channel of electronics ( out of the total 32 ) of the test facility is presented in fig.[figure : electronics ] .",
    "the system uses the modular camac standard electronics and is connected to a personal computer by the caen c111 interface .",
    "the pmt characteristics are normally measured during a 5 hour run .",
    "the pmts are illuminated by low intensity light pulses from a laser .",
    "a picosecond hamamatsu pulse laser was used in the tests .",
    "the model used has a peak power of @xmath4 , the pulse width is @xmath5 , and the laser wavelength is @xmath6 , which is close to the maximum sensitivity of the etl 9351 photocathode .",
    "the light pulse from the laser is delivered by 6 meter long optical fibers into the dark - room .",
    "each of the 4 fibers is supplied with a diffuser in order to provide a more uniform illumination of the tables .",
    "the tdc , caen mod.c414 , `` start '' signals are generated using the laser internal trigger which has negligible time jitter ( @xmath7 ) with respect to the light pulse .",
    "the `` stop '' signal for the tdc is formed by the constant fraction discriminator ( cfd , ortec mod.ccf8200 ) with the threshold set at the 0.2 p.e . level .",
    "the full scale of tdc was set to 200 ns with 2048 channels resolution . because of the memory restrictions of the software , only the part of the full range was used , namely 100 ns in the region [ -30 ns;+70 ns ] around the main peak in the pmt transit time .",
    "the 32-input majority logic unit , lecroy mod.4532 , is able to memorize the pattern of the hit channels .",
    "this information significantly increases the data processing rate .",
    "the reading of the electronics is activated when the majority lam signal is on ( a lam is produced if one of the signals on the input is inside the external gate on the majority logic unit ) .",
    "otherwise , a hardware clear is forced using the majority @xmath8 signal .",
    "every pulse of the laser is followed by an internal trigger .",
    "the trigger is used as the majority external gate .",
    "a high precision calibration of each electronics channel had been performed before the measurements . here",
    "calibration means the precise knowledge of the response to a signal corresponding to 1@xmath9p.e . by the electron multiplier and giving @xmath10pc charge ] on the system input .",
    "the pmt in this measurement was substituted by a precision charge generator lecroy mod .",
    "the gain of each pmt electron multiplier was set to a value of @xmath11 , before the tests with a help of automated gain adjustment system , described in @xcite .",
    "the main timing characteristics defined during the acceptance tests were :    00.00.0000    the position and the rms of the gaussian fitting the main peak in the transit time distribution .",
    "the fit had a an additional constant corresponding to the dark noise level ;    is estimated for all transit time histogram ( up to 90 ns ) ;    late pulsing in percent , estimated as the ratio of the events in the @xmath12 $ ] ns range to the total number of the events ;    prepulsing in percent , estimated as the ratio of the events in the @xmath13 $ ] ns range to the total number of the events .",
    "the results of measurements showed no essential problems with the transit time spread of the pmts , with pmts rejected mainly or because of the high dark rate or because of the bad amplitude response of the pmt .",
    "as a rule a pmt with a good single photoelectron charge response has also a good timing response .",
    "the results of the measurements are presented in table [ table : tests ] . for future use",
    "we put also in this table the parameter @xmath14 , which is the fraction of the underamplified signals in the amplitude spectrum of the single photoelectron response .",
    "the model used to extract the value for @xmath14 from the single p.e .",
    "charge response is described in @xcite .",
    "the underamplified signals can be described well with an exponential with a negative slope @xmath15 p.e . , the value of @xmath16 is presented in table [ table : tests ] too .",
    "the measurements with a threshold ( th ) set to 0.16 p.e .",
    "cuts 61% of the underamplified signals , leaving 6.4% of the total 16.5% .",
    "the distribution of the @xmath17 , @xmath18 and @xmath19 parameters is a normal distribution with a sigma coinciding with the rms of distribution .",
    "the distributions for @xmath20 and @xmath21 have longer non - gaussian tails .",
    "all these results have been written in a database , which can be used for the detector modeling .    [",
    "cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     the peak with probability @xmath22 at @xmath23 ns is caused by the light feedback on the laser optical splitter system .",
    "the light guide of about 1.5 m delivers photons from the laser head to the optical splitter . on the output of the light guide",
    "there is a lens focusing light on the bunch of light guides , which in turn are delivering light to the dark room . in order to provide a single photoelectron regime ,",
    "a reflective attenuation filter is placed between the lens and fibers input .",
    "the filter reflects part of the light , which after traveling back and forth between the filter and the laser head can be fed back to the system .",
    "the spread of the peak @xmath24 ns coincides with a main peak spread .",
    "this peak was extracted from the final shape .",
    "the remaining late pulses shape is described by three functions given by equation ( [ formula : expgauss ] ) type , two with negative and one with a positive slope ( signs in eq .",
    "( [ formula : expgauss ] ) are inverted ) .",
    "the position of the last peak helps in clarifying its origin .",
    "the difference between the position of the last peak and the main peak is @xmath25 ns from the table [ table : latepulsesfit ] ca nt be used in this estimation , because the model function ( [ formula : expgauss ] ) gives .. of the many individual contributions .",
    "for example the function of the form ( [ formula : expgauss ] ) can be used to fit the early pulses shape instead of ( [ formula : earlypulsessum ] ) with a same result . ] , and it is in perfect coincidence with a double drift time obtained in the previous subsection : @xmath26 ns .",
    "the double drift time can be explained by electrons wich elastically scatter on the first dynode electrons , then go away from the dynode , slows down and stops near the photocathode , and then go back to the first dynode to produce a signal .",
    "the amplitude of this pulses should be the same as that of the main peak pulses , which is confirmed in @xcite by measuring the transit time of the pmt with a higher threshold . the total probability to observe elastically scattered photoelectron is @xmath27 .",
    "two remaining contributes with a negative slope corresponds to an inelastic scattering of the photoelectron on the first dynode , without any secondaries produced . in this case ,",
    "part of initial energy of the incident electron is dissipated as heat in the material of the dynode , and the drift time of the electron in this case depends on the remaining part of the energy , and , naturally , is less than in the case of elastic scattering . in the extreme case all",
    "the energy is dissipated , and , without any delay , the electron is transferred to the next stage of amplification , producing on average a signal with an amplitude of factor @xmath28 smaller than a normal signal . in the intermediate case",
    ", the scattered electron is delayed by the time in the range @xmath29 , and after returning back to the first dynode produces a signal with lower amplitude in comparison to the amplitudes of the main peak signals .",
    "the smaller is the delay the smaller is the amplitude of the signal .",
    "the total amount of the inelastically scattered photoelectrons can be defined summing these two contributes to the late pulses .",
    "the summing gives a value @xmath30 , i.e. almost 4% of all registered signals are the signals of small amplitudes due to inelastically scattered photoelectrons .",
    "this value is less than a value of 6.4% obtained in section [ section : testing ] using the values of @xmath14 , @xmath16 and the tdc threshold from table [ table : tests ] .",
    "a contribution of 8.4% from the main peak fit ..... this observations leads to a conclusion that the underamplified part of the signals is mainly due to the totally inelastic scattering on the first dynode with a minimal delay .",
    "the amplitude of the pulses arriving at @xmath31 ns is bigger than a threshold set .",
    "in fact , when fitting the charge spectrum of the pmt with a sum of exponential and gaussian terms , the valley between them remains underfilled .",
    "the proposed model fits well the observed distribution ; nevertheless , the statistics are so high that some further features of the transit time of elastically scattered photoelectrons can be noted . at the increasing part of the elastic peak there is a small bump in the region of 41 ns ( see fig.[figure : bump ] ) .",
    "the amount of this pulses is very small , but the bump is pronounced .",
    "these are the photoelectrons , elastically scattered from the focusing grid before the first dynode .",
    "these electrons can reach the photocathode , and after the elastic scattering on the photocathode , or possible multiplication on it it will arrive to the first dynode with an energy of the normally accelerated electrons . in the case of multiplication on the photocathode",
    "this results in a bigger amplitude signals .",
    "this can partially explain the non - gaussian tails observed in the charge distribution of the single photoelectron signals .",
    "the method proposed for the deconvolution of the pmt signal can be used as well to extract the time decay curve of the liquid scintillator , using the data obtained with the start - stop measurements with tdc .",
    "no signals have been observed at the position corresponding to the single drift time of photoelectron @xmath32 , that would have been present in the case of generation of luminiscent photons or gamma - rays on the first dynode by an incident photoelectron , without producing secondaries .",
    "the presense of the small peak , nearly at the same position due to the reflections in the light splitting system gives a possibility to estimate the sensitivity of our setup to this kind of process at the level of @xmath33 ( one should note , that the peak with a probability @xmath34 is clearly seen , and the position of the hypothetical peak is known ) .",
    "the good knowledge of the pmt timing response can help the manufacturer in improving the pmt timing characteristics . from the point of view of the experimentor ,",
    "a good knowledge of the pmt response is necessary for the proper modeling of the detector response , and in most practical cases one can simplify the model , keeping only the main contributions to the signal . in fig.[figure : lowmu ] are shown pmt responses modeled with a @xmath35 function and with a function @xmath36 without the early pulses term .",
    "one can see that the function @xmath36 fails to describe the pmt timing response , and the function @xmath35 practically coincide with @xmath37 , reflecting the fact , that the pmt operates mainly in a single p.e . regime .",
    "another case is illustrated in fig.[figure:5pe ] .",
    "the pmt is registering on average @xmath38 p.e .",
    "the tail in the pmt transit time distribution is suppressed by more than one order of magnitude , and the @xmath39 function gives a satisfactory description of the @xmath40 ns part of the distribution .",
    "but this time , the early pulses should be taken into account in order to have a good model of the early coming pulses .",
    "we can conclude , that the multiple p.e .",
    "signal can be modeled with a main peak part of the total distribution , given by equation ( [ formula : mainpeak ] ) . in the case of a single photoelectron counting the best result",
    "can be obtained using the @xmath35 function .",
    "the prepulses at @xmath41 ns stays far away from the main peak , and with a proper treatment can be easily separated .",
    "the amplitude of these pulses is small , and they can be suppressed increasing the threshold , as it was demonstrated in @xcite . in general , the relative probability of prepulses increases almost linearly with an increase of the mean number of the registered photoelectrons : @xmath42 , where @xmath43 is a relative probability of the early pulses in the single p.e . regime . at @xmath44 p.e .",
    "it is still of the order of @xmath45 .",
    "the results of the test measurements of the characteristics of 2200 pmt for the borexino experiment provide the most complete information for the evaluation of the etl9351 timing characteristics with a high precision .",
    "the unique timing characteristics of the setup used and a huge statistics accumulated during the tests of the pmts to be used in the future borexino experiment , allow to resolve the fine structure of the pmt timing response .",
    "a method to obtain the probability density function of the single photoelectron counting from the experimental data is proposed and applied to derive the pmt average characteristics .",
    "for the first time an analytical model of the single photoelectron time arrival in a pmt is proposed , describing all the features of the single photoelectron time arrival .",
    "the origin of the small amplitude pulses , as well as a non - gaussian tail in the amplitude response of pmt are explained .",
    "credits are given to the developers of the cern root program @xcite , that was used in the calculations and to create all the figures of the article .",
    "special thanks to r.ford for the careful reading of the manuscript .    10 sno collaboration , boger j. , et al , nim a449(2000)172 . kamiokande collaboration , hirata k.s . ,",
    "et al , phys.rev.lett .",
    "+ fukuda y. , et al , phys.rev.lett .",
    "suzuki a. , nucl.phys .",
    "b 77(proc.suppl.)(1999)171 - 176 . g. alimonti et al . ,",
    "borexino collaboration , astroparticle physics 16 ( 2002 ) 205 - 234 .",
    "alimonti g. et al . , nucl .",
    "instrum . and methods .",
    "a 406 ( 1998 ) p.411 - 426 .",
    "g. ranucci , d.giugni , i.manno et al .",
    "and methods .",
    "a337 ( 1993 ) 211 .",
    "photomultipliers and accessories , electron tubes ltd .",
    "r. dossi , a. ianni , g. ranucci , o. ju .",
    "nim a451 ( 2000 ) 623 .",
    "g. ranucci , nim a335 ( 1993 ) 121 .",
    "g. ranucci et al . , nim a350 ( 1994 ) 338 .",
    "g.bacchiocchi , a. brigatti , r. dossi , a. ianni, .. o . smirnov .",
    "`` the earth s magnetic field compensation in the borexino phototubes facility . '' lngs preprint infn / tc-97/35 , 1997 .",
    "available at http://lngs.infn.it/. o. ju .",
    "instruments and experimental techniques , vol.45 no3 ( 2002 ) 363 .",
    "b.k.lubsandorzhiev , p.g.pokhil , r.v.vasiljev , a.g.wright .",
    "nim a 442 ( 2000 ) 452 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the results of the test measurements of the characteristics of 2200 pmt for the borexino experiment provide the most complete information for the evaluation of the etl9351 timing characteristics with a high precision . </S>",
    "<S> the unique timing characteristics of the apparatus used and the large statistics accumulated during the tests of the pmts to be used in the future borexino experiment , allow to resolve a fine structure of the pmt timing response .    </S>",
    "<S> a method to obtain the probability density function of the single photoelectron counting from the experimental data is proposed and applied to derive the pmt average characteristics . </S>",
    "<S> for the first time , an analytical model of the single photoelectron pmt time response is proposed , describing all the features of the single photoelectron time arrival . </S>",
    "<S> the origin of the small amplitude pulses is explained . </S>"
  ]
}