{
  "article_text": [
    "globalization was initially presented as a process of `` simple '' homogenization of the market economy . at first its economic and political dimensions",
    "were underlined , but later , during last several years , a growing number of scholars have come to see the cultural dimension as an important phenomenon .",
    "they have concentrated here , however , on the americanization of the world economy @xcite . on the other hand , it should be stressed that the students of macro - economy no longer question the heterogeneity of cultures of capitalism . particularly after the fall of socialism , which resulted in the withering away of a viable alternative or competition to the capitalist system , discussion of the disadvantages of capitalism and its heterogeneity became even more vivid than before @xcite .    at the same time",
    ", there has been a significant shift in theoretical reflection on these phenomena . in the social sciences , the strong influence of postmodernism results in a growing stress on the analysis of heterogeneity as such , on the studying of the specific rather than the general , and on interdisciplinary research . on the other hand , contemporary economic analysis , with its strong neo - institutional current @xcite , draws on psychology and sociology .    since the late 1980s the `` new economic sociology '' @xcite has been a very dynamic current attempting to unify sociological and economic traditions , and has proven itself to be a fruitful approach to research . in 1985",
    "mark granovetter proposed the analysis of the embeddedness of economic processes in social structure , and his article became very influential , serving perhaps as a `` program manifesto '' for this current of thought .",
    "it opened the road to a number of interesting studies which brought a broader , more diverse view of the socio - economic realm .",
    "these new studies went in several interesting directions , like , for instance a ) attempts to bridge the gap between sociological and economic methodologies @xcite , b ) an analysis of economic phenomena through the underlying social value systems @xcite , and the most inspiring for me , c ) an approach stressing the cultural background of economic activities @xcite .",
    "the latter has , in sociology , its classic antecedence in works of max weber @xcite and thorstein veblen @xcite .",
    "theories of post - industrial society @xcite have also proven very insightful .",
    "i would particularly stress the concepts of `` flexibility '' and `` learning organizations '' , as well as the concept of knowledge as a significant factor in social and economic development .",
    "these theories have marked a new way of looking at the economic processes taking place within a social structure and a culture @xcite .",
    "these sociological conceptions of economic organizations , as well as of culturally determined processes of doing business and managing , have found their application in the field of intercultural management @xcite .",
    "scholars employing this method of analysis draw upon classics ( including the modern classics ) of sociology @xcite and of social and cultural anthropology @xcite .    in the light of all these analyses",
    ", there is no doubt that today the concept of capitalism is , culturally speaking , heterogeneous @xcite , and that we have to do with at least three different patterns of capitalism : anglo - saxon , german and asian .",
    "the german model , also called continental european , is internally heterogeneous as well and its homogenization is a painful process , very well visible in the problems with continuous integration of the european union .",
    "all these patterns of cultures of capitalism have emerged in the centuries - long process of evolution , and have taken shape in a `` natural '' way , slowly building relatively coherent legislative and cultural systems .",
    "thus the cultural variation of economic activity is wide and multidimensional .",
    "there are also different methodological approaches to the relations between culture and economy in which culture can be treated once as an independent variable and another time as a dependent variable . on this simple binomial relation",
    "one can superimpose various levels of social analysis : macro- , mezzo- or micro .",
    "the thus established models could be further analyzed from sociological , economic , organizational , anthropological or mixed perspectives . because of rising interest in these issues one can find examples of each of the above mentioned approaches .",
    "like in every relatively new field of research , there are still more questions then answers .",
    "the text presented below is meant to participate in this discussion .",
    "so , within it , there are also more questions than answers . to articulate these questions , i choose as an example the analyses of the culture of capitalism provided by alfons trompenaars and charles hampden - turner @xcite .",
    "i will start my analysis with a short presentation of the assumptions in trompenaars and hampden - turner s model .",
    "economic institutions are the basic level of their analysis , so their primary interest is in the culture of organization , as well as in intercultural management .",
    "institutions are constituted by people , and the most important stratum for economic institutions is the managerial level .",
    "therefore , their attitudes and their cultural values are the subject of research for trompenaars and hampden - turner .",
    "managers are influenced by the culture of the society within which they were socialized , but when shaping the organizations of their institutions and the relations between them , these managers also influence the culture of the whole society .",
    "so the authors are regularly switching between levels of analysis , from the attitudes of individual managers , to the roles operating within organizations , and to the `` culture of economy '' as such .",
    "the interactions between these levels are neither clear nor simple and they leave too much opportunity for unjustified generalizations . however , this way of reasoning , even if not very precise , can be attractive and stimulating .    in order to understand how cultural values influence the choices made by people in the economic field , we must first distinguish which processes are , in this particular field , significant for the entire system , and then examine their cultural dimensions .",
    "there are seven such processes and related dilemmas which are important in analyzing the construction of a cultural system of economy .",
    "the approach presented below was earlier applied by charles hampden - turner and alfons trompenaars in their studies of international managers @xcite .",
    "particularism vs. universalism .",
    ": :    the process of setting and using rules and standards to regulate    economic activities on the macro - social level ( economy ) , as well as on    the micro - social level ( individual enterprise ) , is very important .",
    "the    efficiency of an economic system depends on the ability to set    universal rules while still taking exceptions into account .",
    "thus , some    societies will more likely try to put everything under the control of    general rules and others will be more willing to treat every situation    as exceptional .",
    "the practice of economic behavior will reflect the    particular solutions of this cultural dilemma between universalism and    particularism .",
    "analysis vs. synthesis .",
    ": :    progress in any sphere depends on the ability to learn .",
    "this is based    on the capacity to deconstruct and reconstruct , and reflects the    cultural ability to think analytically or synthetically . as a result ,    economic processes can be organized into a series of detailed    functions to be fulfilled ( analysis ) or into a single new scheme    ( synthesis ) .",
    "individualism vs. collectivism .",
    ": :    every economic activity is based on individual initiative ,    entrepreneurship and on one s drive to achieve certain goals . at the    same time , the interests of groups , of the enterprise and of the whole    economic system have to be taken into account .",
    "thus , there is a    constant cultural tension between individualism and collectivism .",
    "depending on which of the two social values is dominating , the    definitions of economic institutions and their functions will differ .",
    "this variation is particularly visible in human resources management    ( personal policy , benefits , evaluation etc . ) .",
    "internal vs. external control .",
    ": :    in order to achieve certain goals the individual or group must make    decisions .",
    "the question is whether they make decisions based on their    own judgement , vision and responsibility or whether they take into    account some external factors .",
    "the cultural dilemma is to what extent    the majority of society is likely to be internally or externally    controlled .",
    "time sequential vs. synchronic .",
    ": :    being successful in the market requires not only making the right    decisions but also making them at the right time . the final effect",
    "can    be achieved through sequence of steps , or by synchronizing many    processes at the same time .",
    "this cultural approach to time is    reflected in the organization of economic processes . ascribed status vs. achieved status . : :    economic activity is realized by economic institutions that have a    hierarchical structure . the rules of moving up in this structure are    important for the development and stability of the organization . in    cultures",
    "which stress achieved status , organizations are more flexible    in economic activity but they have problems with management stability .    in cultures that stress ascribed status , economic activity is less    dynamic but management is more stabile .",
    "democracy vs. hierarchical structure .",
    ": :    the structure of an economic organization effects not only managers    but also every other participant .",
    "there are democratic organizations ,    where more participants are involved in decision making processes and    there are very hierarchical organizations based on giving and    following orders .    using a methodological approach characteristic for the economy , with a tendency toward model building and based on the dimensions presented above , we can construct two opposite ideal cultures of capitalism , obviously simplifying the actual variety of situations .",
    "one of these would be characterized by universalism , an analytic way of thinking , individualism , a linear approach to time , internal control , stress on achieved status and democracy .",
    "the american model of capitalism would be an example of this ideal type .",
    "the other ideal type would be characterized by particularism , a synthetic way of thinking , collectivism , a synchronic approach to time , external control , and stress on ascribed status and hierarchy .",
    "the japanese model would be an example of this second ideal type . between these poles",
    "there is a spectrum of various combinations of the dimensions presented above .",
    "these combinations have examples first and foremost in european models of capitalism . using the concept of embeddedness taken from economic sociology hampden - turner and trompenaars made detailed descriptions of these models looking within historical , political and cultural contexts for explanations of each particular cultural dilemma .",
    "therefore , we find in their books references to `` national character '' as an explanation of individual behavior . this solution could be questioned for two reasons .",
    "first , it leads to the strengthening of national stereotypes .",
    "second , in the history of nearly every society one can find examples where a set of completely contradictory values were nurtured .",
    "the mentioned kind of analysis can be considered as speculation or as stimulation for further discussion .",
    "i will treat it as a stimulating speculation .",
    "i will focus only on one of them , universalism versus particularism .",
    "using the database of trompenaars and hampden - turner i will show how this dilemma was solved by managers from different european countries .",
    "follow hampden - turner and trompenaars i will present two stories which served them as a measures of particularism - universalism dilemma .",
    "p6cmp6 cm you are drinking beer with your friend who is responsible of safety at work during his duty hours .",
    "one employee become injured .",
    "you have to testify and you are the only witness . what right has your friend to expect you to protect him ? & you are manager of a big company s department",
    ". one of your employee with personal problems you are aware of is constantly delayed at work . what right has your employee to expect his fellow workers to cover him from you ?",
    "my friend has a definite right as a friend to expect me to testify to protect him .",
    "he has some right as a friend to expect me to testify to protect him .",
    "he has no right as a friend to expect me to testify to protect him .    &    1 .",
    "he has a definite right to expect his fellow workers to cover him .",
    "he has some right to expect his fellow workers to cover him .",
    "he has no right to expect his fellow workers to cover him .",
    "percentage of c answers for both stories among the managers from different european countries :    [ cols= \" < , < , < , < \" , ]     based on these variables i made simple index which rage from 3 ( the most particularistic attitudes ) to 15 ( the most universalistic attitudes ) . its distribution is shown in fig . [ fig-1 ]",
    ".    on average european respondents are more likely universalist than particularist ( the average total mean 10.2 ) .",
    "the ess was conducted in 24 european countries .",
    "the differences between countries in the mean level of analyzed attitudes range from 9.3 for belgium ( 9.5 for ukraine and 9.7 for poland  three most particularistic countries ) to 11.1 for portugal ( 11.0 for norway and 10.9 for france  three most universalistic countries ) .",
    "the results of this simple analysis are mostly coherent with other research findings eg mentioned above trompenaars and hampden - turner conclusions . however , there are two surprising cases  france and portugal ( see figs .",
    "[ fig-2 ] and [ fig-3 ] ) .",
    "both are predominantly catholic countries with managers of particularistic attitudes rather , here with the highest score on universalistic pole of the index  portugal and the third highest score on it  france .",
    "judging from the shape of a frequency polygon ( presented on the figures below ) there might be different explanations embedded in social structure for both countries .",
    "it will require further analysis to find causes of these discrepancies but this task goes beyond presented text .",
    "i will be particularly interested in the place of poland on the mosaic of european cultures of capitalism .",
    "polish culture of capitalism is particularistic rather than universalistic ( see fig .",
    "[ fig-4 ] ) .",
    "more specifically i would say that the dilemma between universalism and particularism in polish culture has been solved in such a way that poles accept and understand universalistic rules as long as they concern theoretical issues .",
    "when it comes to practice they prefer more particularistic solutions . in the everyday life in poland",
    "we can find plenty of examples of disobeying universalistic rules and regulations due to the `` exceptional character '' of cases .",
    "this is a more common situation than obeying the law .",
    "these attitudes towards legal regulations and formal institutions ( e.g. state , company , or contracts ) can also be shaped by some historical experiences ( e.g. lack of independence during partition time and the communist system ) .",
    "because of this , formal institutions are still perceived as a part of `` outside '' world , created from above .",
    "thus regulations are not serving citizens but controlling them @xcite .",
    "polish particularism is also described as familiarism @xcite which divides the world between a friendly small circle of family and friends and a larger , alien , outside part .",
    "this division has consequences in social relations and attitudes toward work .",
    "however , emergence of polish culture of capitalism will occur , most probably , within the framework of the european union .",
    "this will influence both the direction and the scope of changes in the polish economy .",
    "as the experience of the eu shows , the process of integration does not mean unification .",
    "in the enlarged eu , the cultural differences and interests will still have to be managed on the supranational level , as well as on the level of individual companies investing in foreign places . in order to manage these differences successfully , knowledge from the presented kind of research",
    "will be very useful .",
    "99 a. trompenaars , ch . hampden - turner , _ riding the waves of culture _",
    ", mcgraw - hill , new york 1998 .",
    "hampden - turner , a. trompenaars , _ the seven cultures of capitalism _ , anchor , doubleday , new york 1993 .",
    "d. held , et al .",
    ", _ global transformations _ , polity press , cambridge 1999 .",
    "martin , h. schumann , _ die globalisierungsfalle _ , rowohlt . , reinbek 1996 .",
    "m. albert , _ capitalism against capitalism _ , whurr publishers , london 1993 .",
    "e. n. luttwak , _ turbo - capitalism .",
    "winners and losers in the global economy _ , 1998 , ( polish edition ) wydawnictwo dolnolaskie , wrocaw 2000 .",
    "l. c. thurow , _ the future of capitalism _ , 1996 , ( polish edition ) wydawnictwo dolnolaskie , wrocaw 1999 .",
    "d. c. north , _ institutions , institutional change and economic performance _ , cambridge university press , cambridge 1990 .",
    "r. swedberg ( ed . ) , _ explorations in economic sociology _ , russell sage foundation , new york 1993 .",
    "n. j. smelser , r. swedberg ( eds . ) , _ handbook of economic sociology _ , princeton university press and russell sage foundation , new york 1994 .",
    "j. s. coleman , _ am .",
    "* 94 * , 95 ( 1988 ) j. s. coleman , _ a rational choice perspective on economic sociology _",
    "( in : ) smelser and swedberg 1994 , pp .",
    "166 - 180 .",
    "e. anderson , _ value in ethics and economics _ , harvard university press , cambridge mass .",
    "and london 1993 .",
    "r. m. coughlin ( ed . ) , _ morality , rationality , and efficiency : new perspective in socio - economics _ , m. e. sharpe , london 1991 .",
    "a. etzioni , _ the moral dimensions : toward a new economics _ , the free press , new york 1988 .",
    "p. dimaggio , _ culture and economy _ ( in ) smelser and swedberg 1994 , pp .",
    "s. zukin , p. dimaggio ( eds . ) , _ structure of capital : the social organization of the economy _ , cambridge university press , cambridge 1990 .",
    "m. weber , _ the protestant ethic and the spirit of capitalism _ , charles scribner s sons , new york 1958 . m. weber , _ economy and society .",
    "an outline of interpretive sociology _ , two volumes , edited by guenther roth and claus wittich , university of california press , berkeley et al .",
    "t. veblen , _ the theory of the leisure class .",
    "the challenging analysis of social conduct that ironically probes miused wealth and conspicuous consumption _ , a mentor book , 1958 d. bell , _ the coming of post - industrial society _ , basic books , new york 1973 .",
    "a. touraine , _ the post - industrial society _ , wildwood press , new york 1974 .",
    "f. block , _ post - industrial possibilities : a critique of economic discourse _ , university of california press , berkeley 1990 .",
    "m. carnoy et al . , _ the new global economy in the information age _ , pennsylvania state university press , university park 1993",
    ". s. lash , j. urry , _ economies of signs and space _ , sage publications , london 1994 .",
    "a. toffler , _ future shock _",
    ", random house , new york 1970 .",
    "a. toffler , _ power shift .",
    "knowledge , wealth , and violence at the edge of the 21st century _ , bantam books ; new york et al .",
    ". hampden - turner , _ charting the corporate mind _",
    ", basil blackwell , oxford 1991 .",
    "g. hofstede , _ cultures and organizations .",
    "software of the mind _",
    ", mcgraw - hill , new york 1997 .",
    "d. mcclelland , _ the achieving society _ , van nostrand , new york 1950 .",
    "r. k. merton , _ social theory and social structure _ , the free press , new york 1968 .",
    "t. parsons , _ the social system _ , free press , new york 1951 .",
    "d. riesman , _ the lonely crowd _ , yale university press , new haven 1966 .",
    "c. geertz , _ the interpretation of cultures _ , basic books , new york 1973 . e. t. hall , _ the silent language _ , anchor press , new york 1959 .",
    "d. bell , _ the cultural contradictions of capitalism _ , heinemann , london 1979 .",
    "j. d. sachs , _ reforms in eastern europe and the former soviet union in light of east asian experience _ , harvard institute for economic development , cambridge mass . 1995 .",
    "r. jowell and the central co - ordinating team , european social survey 2004/2005 : technical report , london : centre for comparative social surveys , city university ; 2005 .",
    "j. kochanowicz , m. mira , _ pol .",
    "rev . _ * 4 * , 343 ( 2003 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the cultural variation of economic activity is wide and multidimensional . in my presentation </S>",
    "<S> i will refer to the analyses of the culture of capitalism provided by alfons trompenaars and charles hampden - turner . according to them </S>",
    "<S> there are seven processes and related dilemmas which are important in analyzing the construction of a cultural system of economy . </S>",
    "<S> i will focus only on one of them , universalism versus particularism . using the database of trompenaars and </S>",
    "<S> hampden - turner i will show how this dilemma was solved by managers from different european countries . </S>",
    "<S> that will be starting point for my analysis of universalism - particularism attitudes of respondents of european social survey ( ess ) . </S>",
    "<S> i will be particularly interested in verification of hypothesis on the place of poland on the mosaic of european cultures of capitalism . </S>"
  ]
}