{
  "article_text": [
    "most scientists publish their findings to disseminate their research results widely and hope that their research has some impact in the scientists community and society in general . for many years",
    ", citation counts have been used for this goal .",
    "this research evaluation approach has produced interesting results identifying the complex nature of physics impact in the research community ( for instance see refs .",
    "@xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "this identification of diverse research impacts is important to research managers/ sponsors/ evaluators , and of course performers .",
    "they are interested in the types of people and organizations citing the research outputs , and whether the citing audience is the target audience .",
    "also , they are interested in whether the development categories and technical disciplines impacted by the research outputs are the desired targets .",
    "since fundamental research can evolve along myriad paths , tracking diverse impacts becomes very complex .",
    "recently , scientists have addressed the problem of citation in scientific research from different perspectives : looking for topological description of citation @xcite , or for power laws in citation networks @xcite , or obtaining power laws in number of cites received by journals according to their number of published papers @xcite , or though two - step competition model relating the number of publications and number of cites .",
    "these different approaches use power laws trying to obtain simple results from complex interactions , assuming that the precise details of the interactions among the parts of the system play no role in determining the overall behavior of the system@xcite .",
    "other approaches try to find some kind of universality in the behavior of research institutions @xcite,@xcite .",
    "however , in order to obtain a detailed representation of the system it is important to know the details of the interactions .",
    "the creation of roadmaps for science and technology illuminates these interactions , and allows the progression of research to be portrayed from both retrospective and prospective perspectives . and with these @xcite , @xcite .",
    "the analysis of the cites and authorship from a social network perspective gives other useful information to characterize scientific disciplines @xcite , @xcite .",
    "however , these approaches : scaling , networks and roadmaps , have limitations due to the fact that they explore only partially the data available from the citation system .",
    "the detailed analysis of all the available data of the citing community is required to obtain more information and knowledge .",
    "until now there has been no comprehensive systematic methodology to deal with the information available through cites of the scientific article . to overcome the above mentioned limitations of these techniques , we have developed a phenomenological approach to deal with all the citation information available , and obtain a more detailed description of this complex system .",
    "the aim of this paper is to show how we can obtain a more complete profile of the citing papers , and thereby get a more complete representation of the impact of science .",
    "the application of this kind of phenomenological detailed description is useful to obtain a different and illustrative view of the complex systems .",
    "the enhanced coverage of the research literature by the web version of the science citation index ( sci-5300 leading research journals ) allows a broad variety of bibliometric analyses of r&d units ( papers , researchers , journals , institutions , countries , technical areas ) to be performed .",
    "aggregation of citation number counts is characteristic of almost all published citation studies@xcite,@xcite , @xcite ; this approach identifies r&d units that have had ( and have not had ) gross impact on the user community .",
    "however , as we have already mentioned , this abscence of fine - structure represents a limited perspective ; therefore , we require an approach that utilizes all the available citing data and could help answer questions such as :    what types of people and organizations are citing the research outputs ; is this the desired target audience ?",
    "what development categories are citing the research outputs ?",
    "what technical disciplines are citing the research outputs ?",
    "what are the relationships between the citing technical disciplines and the cited technical disciplines ?",
    "the aim of the present study is to show the power and capability of this new phenomenological approach to citer profiling .",
    "it is necessary to stress that the aim is not to assess the productivity and magnitude of impact of any individual researcher , research group , laboratory , institution , or country . to perform such an assessment , the authors would need a charter and statistically representative data based on the unit of assessment , i.e. to make a portrait of the research impact according with the current available scientific databases .",
    "the organization of this paper is the following : in the second section , we summarize the methodology , and describe citation mining . in the third section , we present the results of analyzing four sets of papers . in the following",
    "we will refer to these papers as cited papers , in order to distinguish them from the citing papers that are the papers in which the cited papers are referenced .",
    "we profile the four selected paper sets through the analysis of the characteristics of the citing authors , journals where the citing papers appeared , references in the citing papers , and also through the analysis of linguistic correlations in the abstract of the cited and citing papers as well as the titles and the keywords , and other registers available in the sci database .",
    "finally , we conclude with some remarks on the present study .",
    "in this section we describe a simple procedure to incorporate much of the sci information in the analysis of the impact of scientific papers .",
    "first , we identify the types of data contained in the sci ( circa early 2000 ) , and the types of analyses that will be performed on this information ( see table 1 ) .",
    "table 1 shows a record from the sci , without the field tags . the actual paper that it represents is referred in the following description as the full paper. starting from the top , the individual fields are :    [ cols=\"<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]      the citing papers to usf paper representing different categories of development and different disciplines from those of the cited paper",
    "are portrayed graphically in figure 12 , the axes are category , alignment and papers .",
    "the category represents the level of development characterized by the citing paper ( 1=basic research ; 2=applied research ; 3=advanced development/ applications ) , and the alignment represents the degree of similarity between the main themes of the citing and cited papers ( 1=strong alignment ; 2=partial alignment ; 3=little alignment ) .",
    "there are three interesting features on figure 12 .",
    "first , the tail of total annual citation counts is very long , and shows little sign of abating , this is one characteristic feature of a seminal paper .",
    "second , the fraction of extra - discipline basic research citing papers to total citing papers ranges from about 20 - 40% annually , with no latency period evident .",
    "this instant extra - disciplinary diffusion may have been due to the combination of intrinsic broad - based applicability of the subject matter and publication of the paper in a high - circulation science journal with very broad - based readership .",
    "third , there was a four - year latency period before the higher development category citing papers began to emerge .",
    "one can see that black dots ( earlier cites ) are completely in the category .",
    "this correlates with the results from the bibliometrics component .",
    "the latency could have been due to the information remaining in the basic research journals , and not reaching the applications community , or the time that an application needs to be developed is of the order of four years .",
    "thus , the basic science publication feature that may have contributed heavily to extra - discipline citations may also have limited higher development category citations for the latency period .",
    "the present phenomenological approach of identifying impact themes through text mining allows a much more detailed and informative picture of the impact of research to be obtained compared to semi - automated journal classification comparison approaches @xcite .",
    "it represents the difference between stating that a  physics paper impacted geology research  and a  paper focused on sand - pile avalanches for surface smoothing impacted analyses of steep hill - slope landslides  .    in the final data analysis",
    ", a taxonomy of the usf citing papers was generated using phrase clustering .",
    "the abstracts of all the usf citing papers were converted to phrases and their frequencies of occurrence with use of a natural language processor contained in the techoasis software package .",
    "the 153 highest frequency technical content phrases ( expert - selected ) were exported to a statistical clustering software package ( winstat ) . based on the relations among phrases generated by this package , a taxonomy was generated by the authors .",
    "a particularly helpful output for each clustering run was the dendogram , a tree - like diagram showing the structural branches that define the clusters .",
    "figure 13 is one dendogram based on the 48 highest frequency phrases ( for illustration purposes only ) .",
    "the abscissa contains the phrases that are clustered .",
    "the ordinate is a distance metric",
    ". the smaller the distance at which phrases , or phrase groups , are clustered , the closer is the connection between the phrases .",
    "thus , samples of the phrases combined , near the right hand end of the graph include dissipation , collisions and energy , and mixtures/ alternating layers/ small grains/ large grains/ stratification . in the middle part of the graph vibration and amplitude can be found . at some later time , the vibration - amplitude combination is grouped with the gravity - granular media combination to form the next hierarchical level grouping , and so on .",
    "many statistical agglomeration techniques for clustering were tested ; the average neighbor method appeared to provide reasonably consistent good results .",
    "analyses were performed of the numerous cluster options that were produced .",
    "the following is one of the top - level cluster descriptions that represented the results of the phrase and word lists clustering best , as well as the factor matrix clustering from the techoasis results ( more clusters can be found in kostoff et al .",
    "@xcite ) .    the highest level categorization based on the highest frequency 153 phrases produced three distinct clusters @xcite : structure/ properties , flow - based experiments , modeling and simulation . in the description of the structure and properties cluster ( right part of the dendogram figure 13 ) that follows",
    ", phrases that appeared within the clusters will be capitalized .",
    "this cluster contained mixtures of large grains and small grains , with stratification along alternating layers based on size segregation and grain shape and geometrical profile .",
    "the mixture forms a pile with an angle of repose . when the angle of repose is larger than a critical angle , dynamical processes produce avalanches , resulting in surface flow within thin layers .",
    "in this paper , we have presented a phenomenological technique to analyze some aspects of a complex system like the multi - path non - monotonic impact of scientific research .",
    "the result of using citation mining ( bibliometrics and text mining ) to analyze the impact of science , through the use of the available information from the web of science isi , allows the profiling of the citing papers of a given paper , research group , scientific organization , etc .",
    "we illustrated citation mining through the analysis of four research groups .",
    "this analysis provided multiple facets and perspectives of the myriad impacts of research .",
    "citation mining offers insights that would not emerge if only separate citing paper counts were used independently , as is the prevalent use of citation analysis today .",
    "moreover , by removing the need to actually read thousands of abstracts through the use of text mining , comprehensive assessments of research impact become feasible .",
    "one important result from the basic research citation mining @xcite was that impacts are possible in myriad fields and applications not envisioned by the researchers .",
    "this reference also questioned whether fundamental sand - pile research would receive funding from tokamak , air traffic control , or materials programs , even though sand - pile research could impact these or many other types of applications , as shown in the paper .",
    "the reference concluded that sponsorship of some unfettered research must be protected , for the strategic long - term benefits on global technology and applications !",
    "99 amaral , lan , gopikrishnan , p. , matia , k. , plerou , v. and stanley e.h .",
    "application of statistical physics methods and concepts to the study of science & technology systems , scientometrics , 51 , 3 ( 2001 ) .",
    "katz , j.s .",
    "the self - similar science systems , research policy 28 , 501 - 517 ( 1999 ) ; katz , j.s . scale - independent indicators and research evaluation , electronic working paper series spru , university of sussex , ( 2000 ) http://www.sussex.ac.uk / spru/.      kostoff , r.n . ,",
    "del ro , j.a .",
    ", humenik .",
    "j.a . , garca , e.o . and ramrez , a.m. citation mining : integrating text mining and bibliometrics for research user profiling j. am .",
    "52 1148 - 1156 ( 2001 ) .",
    "newman , m.e.j .",
    "scientific collaboration networks i , phys .",
    "e 64 , 016131 ( 2001 ) ; newman , m.e.j . scientific collaboration networks ii , phys .",
    "e 64 , 016132 ( 2001 ) ; newman , m.e.j . the structure of scientific collaboration networks , p. natl .",
    "usa 98 , 404 - 409 ( 2001 ) .",
    "plerou , v. amaral , l.a.n . ,",
    "goplkrishnan , p. , meyer , m. and stanley h.e .",
    "similaties between the growth dynamics of university research and of competitive economic activities , nature 400 , 433437  ( 1999 ) .",
    "stanley , h.e . , amaral , lan , goplkrishnan , p. , ivanov p.ch .",
    "keitt t.h . and plerou , v. scale invariance and universality : organizing principles in complex systems .",
    "physica a 281 , 60 - 68 ( 2000 ) .",
    "time profile of citing papers for usf .",
    "here it is important to stress a four year delay in the appearence of applied citing papers , but no delay in the appearence of extradiscipline fundamental papers .",
    "figure 6 . citing country development phase . in this graph",
    "we are plotting the relative number of citing countries according to their development phase .",
    "each axis indicates the ratio between developed or developing citing countries and the total number of citing countries to each group .",
    "lines are drawn in order to guide the eye and group the different origins of the citing papers . in the fundamental groups ,",
    "the difference between the number of papers produced in developed and developing countries is clear .",
    "usf , usa and brif receive more cites from developed countries than from developing ones",
    ". however , note that again the topic of low cost technology is more interesting for developing countries ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this paper we present a phenomenological approach to describe a complex system : scientific research impact through citation mining . </S>",
    "<S> the novel concept of citation mining , a combination of citation bibliometrics and text mining , is used for the phenomenological description . </S>",
    "<S> citation mining starts with a group of core papers whose impact is to be examined , retrieves the papers that cite these core papers , and then analyzes the technical infrestructure ( authors , jorunals , institutions ) of the citing papers as well as their thematic characteristics . </S>",
    "<S> the science citation index is used as the source database for the core and citing papers , since its citation - based structure enables the capability to perform citation studies easily . </S>",
    "<S> this paper presents illustrative examples in photovoltaics ( applied research ) and sandpile dynamics ( basic research ) to show the types of output products possible . </S>",
    "<S> bibliometric profiling is used to generate the technical infrastructure , and is performed over a number of the citing papers record fields to offer different perspectives on the citing ( user ) community . </S>",
    "<S> text mining is performed on the aggregate citing papers , to identify aggregate citing community themes , and to identify extra - discipline and applications themes . </S>",
    "<S> the photovoltaics applied research papers had on the order of hundreds of citations in aggregate . </S>",
    "<S> all of the citing papers ranged from applied research to applications , and their main themes were fully aligned with those of the aggregate cited papers . </S>",
    "<S> this seems to be the typical case with applied research . </S>",
    "<S> the sandpile dynamics basic research papers had hundreds of citations in aggregate . </S>",
    "<S> most of the citing papers were also basic research whose main themes were aligned with those of the cited paper . </S>",
    "<S> this seems to be the typical case with basic research . however , about twenty percent of the citing papers were research or development in other disciplines , or development within the same discipline . </S>",
    "<S> there was no - time lag between publication and citation by the extra - discipline research papers , but there was a four year lag time between publication and citation by the development papers . </S>"
  ]
}