{
  "article_text": [
    "the miniboone experiment at the fermi national accelerator lab is searching for neutrino oscillations of the type @xmath0 @xcite .",
    "the experiment is designed to confirm or rule out the evidence for such oscillations presented by the lsnd experiment , performed at los alamos in 1993 - 1998 @xcite .",
    "miniboone started running in 2002 and expects to continue taking data at least into 2006 .",
    "the miniboone detector is a 12 m diameter spherical tank of undoped mineral oil .",
    "the main tank volume is defined by an optical barrier and is viewed by 1280 phototubes . outside",
    "the barrier is a veto region viewed by an additional 240 tubes . of the 1520 phototubes in the miniboone detector ,",
    "1197 are inherited from the lsnd experiment , and the rest were more recently purchased from hamamatsu .",
    "the lsnd tubes are 8 inch ( 20 cm ) in diameter , 9 stage , hamamatsu r1408 pmts , while those newly purchased are 8 inch , 10 stage , hamamatsu model r5912 pmts .",
    "a schematic and photo of the neutrino detector is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : detector ] .",
    "more details on the tests used to characterize phototubes for installation in the detector can be found in ref .",
    "@xcite , and more on the angular tests can be found in ref .",
    "prior to installation in the miniboone detector , all pmts were tested to measure : dark current , time jitter , charge resolution , double pulsing , and pulse shape . using these characteristics",
    "the pmts were qualified for installation , and grouped into four categories according to time and charge resolution .",
    "each pmt category was randomly distributed in the detector .",
    "those with the worst time resolution but low dark rate were placed in the veto region .",
    "a schematic of a single tube in the test setup is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : led ] .",
    "the bulk of the measurements were performed in a dark room that could accommodate up to 46 phototubes at a time .",
    "tubes were conditioned under high voltage in the dark for 12 - 24 hours before testing .",
    "dark rates were recorded at a range of operating voltages with no light source .",
    "light from an led pulser was distributed to each tube with optical fibers , with the end of each fiber positioned about 20 cm from pmt face .",
    "the led wavelength was 450 nm and it flashed with 1 ns pulses at a rate of 1 khz , producing light levels ranging from 0.5 to 2 photoelectrons ( pe ) per pulse .",
    "[ fig : global2 ]    operating voltage was selected to obtain a gain of @xmath1 electrons / pe .",
    "the gain was determined by dividing the average response  the total charge for all pulses with response above threshold divided by the number of such responses  by the average number of pes for the given light level , which was determined from the number of null responses .",
    "charge resolution was determined from the width of the one photoelectron peak .",
    "time resolution was taken as the width of the distribution of the time the pmt pulse crossed half maximum of its response to the led pulse . in studying post - pulsing behavior ,",
    "the type of most concern for miniboone is so - called early post - pulsing , when the second pulse occurs 8 - 60 ns after the primary pulse  because data in the experiment are recorded in 100 ns intervals .",
    "such post - pulsing can occur when an electron from the primary cascade is ejected from the first dynode and moves inside the pmt dome before settling back on the first dynode to initiate a secondary cascade .",
    "tubes were found to have such double pulse rates of a few percent .",
    "distributions of these measurements are shown in figs .",
    "[ fig : global2 ] and  [ fig : global1 ] .",
    "seven phototubes ( three r5912 and four r1408 ) were measured using very low light levels .",
    "the same apparatus as described above was used with the addition of neutral density filters so that the probability for producing 2 pe or more was less than 0.001 , or equivalently less than 45 visible pmt response waveforms per 1000 led triggers .",
    "the two types of pmts show differences in single photoelectron response .",
    "the integrated charge distributions from one r1408 pmt and one r5912 pmt are shown in figure  [ fig : low_light ] .",
    "the three measured r5912 tubes had average charge response of 2.26 pc and average charge distribution width of 0.89 pc , while the four r1408 tubes had average charge of 1.96 pc and average charge width of 1.32 pc .",
    "the r1408 tubes have a pronounced high charge tail .",
    "the apparatus used to measure the dependence of the pmt response on the angle of the incident light consisted of a 150 liter tank with walls coated with the same black paint used in miniboone . a 26 cm diameter window allowed light from outside to illuminate a pmt housed inside the tank , and the pmt could be rotated in pitch and yaw with externally - coupled mechanical controls .",
    "an led light source was directed toward the window from a distance of 3 m so that the entire face of the tube was approximately uniformly illuminated with parallel light .",
    "ambient magnetic fields were suppressed by a @xmath2-metal shield outside the tank .",
    "measurements were performed with and without mineral oil in the tank .",
    "response measurements were performed by varying the pitch angle from @xmath3 to @xmath4 in @xmath5 steps , and four r1408 and three r5912 tubes were tested .",
    "each phototube is rotationally symmetric about its central vertical axis , except for its dynode structure .",
    "the r1408 tubes have `` venetian blind '' dynodes and the r5912 tubes have `` box and line '' dynodes .",
    "no significant differences were observed when the dynodes were oriented horizontally , vertically , or at @xmath6 relative to the pitch angle scan .",
    "in addition , one tube s response as a function of yaw angle was compared to its response in pitch angle and no significant difference was observed .",
    "maximum response was assumed to occur at zero incident angle , and the relative response measured in oil for seven phototubes is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : angle_1 ] . a symmetric",
    "polynomial fits these data well .",
    "the relative response is predominantly due simply to the solid angle subtended by the tube as a function of incident angle .",
    "the curve labeled `` hamamatsu pmt drawing '' in fig .",
    "[ fig : angle_4 ] indicates the relative response predicted using the pmt shape specified in the hamamatsu technical drawing , which is nearly hemispherical but a bit more bulbous .",
    "the medium surrounding the tube also plays a role : fig .",
    "[ fig : angle_4 ] shows that the relative response progressively increases for air , water , and mineral oil , which is due to the progressively better matching of the medium s refractive index with that of the pmt glass .",
    "( the air and water measurements shown are from the sno experiment@xcite , which employs r1408 tubes .",
    "miniboone s air measurements agree with those from sno . ) finally , fig .",
    "[ fig : angle_4 ] indicates the difference that remains between the measured relative response in oil and that predicted due to the pmt geometry .",
    "this information is used to model the pmt response in the miniboone detector simulation .",
    "miniboone pmt group : s.j .",
    "brice , l. bugel , j.m .",
    "conrad , b. fleming , l. gladstone , e. hawker , p. killewald , j. may , s. mckenney , p. nienaber , b. roe , v. sandberg , d. smith , m. wysocki s.j.brice et al .",
    "suppl . 143",
    "( 2005 ) 115 .",
    "neutrino 2004 , paris .",
    "lsnd , phys . rev .",
    "d * 64 * ( 2001 ) 112007 .",
    "b.t . fleming et al .",
    ", ieee trans .",
    "49 ( 2002 ) 984 - 988 .",
    "brice et al . , in preparation .",
    "lyon , ph.d .",
    "thesis , university of oxford 59 ( 2002 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the miniboone neutrino oscillation experiment at fermilab uses 1520 8-inch pmts : 1197 pmts are hamamatsu model r1408 and the rest are model r5912 . </S>",
    "<S> all of the pmts were tested to qualify for inclusion in the detector , sorted according to their charge and time resolutions and dark rates . </S>",
    "<S> seven pmts underwent additional low light level tests . the relative detection efficiency as a function of incident angle for seven additional pmts was measured . </S>",
    "<S> procedures and results are presented . </S>",
    "<S> pacs numbers : 85.60.ha , 14.60.pq keywords : phototube , photomultiplier , miniboone , r1408 , r5912 </S>"
  ]
}