{
  "article_text": [
    "modern clocks using laser cooled atoms owe a great deal to the famous 1905 `` annus mirabilis '' of einstein .",
    "indeed the three theoretical problems that einstein beautifully solved in 1905 are key ingredients in current atomic clocks , hundred years after einstein s work .    1 .",
    "first the quanta of light , photons , are routinely used to cool atoms to microkelvin temperatures and to confine them in electromagnetic traps .",
    "atom manipulation is a direct application of energy and momentum exchanges between light and matter . at one microkelvin , cesium atoms which form the basis for the current definition of the si unit of time , the second , move at an average speed of 7mm.s@xmath7 , enabling extremely long observation times and thus precision measurements . on earth ,",
    "atomic fountains enable unperturbed ballistic flight with duration approaching one second .",
    "furthermore , every experiment in atomic physics routinely uses the einstein s photoelectric effect in photodiodes to detect , and control light beams .",
    "furthermore , the concept of photon is intimately connected to the famous planck relationship @xmath8 between energy , planck s constant and frequency of electromagnetic radiation , which is of paramount importance in atomic clocks . 2 .",
    "second einstein s theory of brownien motion with the famous relationship @xmath9 between temperature , diffusion coefficient and friction coefficient not only proved the existence of atoms , but beautifully applies to doppler and sub - doppler laser cooling mechanisms at work in every cold atom experiment @xcite .",
    "in optical molasses atoms are viscously confined by the bath of photons , they experience a three - dimensional random walk in position and storage times in excess of 10 seconds have been observed for this brownien motion .",
    "third einstein s theory of special ( and later general ) relativity introduced a new approach relating space and time , and the fundamental concept of relativistic invariance and lorentz transformation .",
    "einstein predicted that time in a fast moving frame seems to slow down to someone not moving with it , and distances appear shorter .",
    "this revolutionary approach had major fundamental as well as practical consequences in the following century .",
    "clocks in different reference frames tick at different rates and the well - known gps receivers which equip boats , cars , and planes use routinely einstein s relativity to determine their position with 10 meter accuracy .",
    "indeed , the atomic clocks onboard the 24 gps satellites orbiting the earth at an altitude of 20 000 kms must be corrected for relativistic effects ( time dilation and gravitational shift ) in order to be synchronized with ground clocks and to reach this positioning accuracy .",
    "the correction is about 38 microseconds per day .",
    "if each satellite would not apply this compensation the positioning error would reach 11 kilometers per day !",
    "these three papers have had revolutionary consequences in science and society .",
    "historically , clocks have played a major role in tests of predictions of relativity theories , from the hafele - keating clock transport in jet planes , the pound - rebka gravitational shift measurement , the vessot - levine gp - a space hydrogen maser red - shift measurement , and radar ranging shapiro delay experiment @xcite .",
    "in addition the current definition of time in the si unit system , the second , relies on einstein equivalence principle ( eep ) .",
    "this principle is the foundation for all gravitational metric theories that describe gravity as a consequence of curved space - time .",
    "the einstein equivalence principle states",
    "@xcite :    1 .",
    "if an uncharged test body is placed at an initial event in spacetime and given an initial velocity there , then its subsequent trajectory will be independent of its internal structure and composition 2 .   in any freely falling frame",
    ", the outcome of any local non gravitational test experiments is independent of the velocity of the frame 3 .",
    "the outcome of any local non gravitational test experiment is independent of where and when in the universe it is performed    an immediate consequence of eep is that the fundamental constants of physics such as the gravitational constant @xmath10 , or the fine structure constant @xmath11 must be independent of time and space .    in this article",
    "we first describe recent progress in the realization of the si second using laser cooled cesium and rubidium clocks .",
    "in a second part we use these highly stable devices to perform new tests of einstein equivalence principle , namely the constancy of fundamental constants .",
    "the ever increasing control of the motion of atomic samples is at the origin of recent progress in atomic frequency standards and precision measurements @xcite .",
    "laser cooled and trapped atoms enable long observation times required for high precision measurements .",
    "charged particles confined in paul or penning traps offer extremely long storage enabling high precision mass measurements , fundamental tests , and the realization of ultra - stable microwave and optical clocks .",
    "the recent npl frequency measurement of an optical transition in sr@xmath12 ion with an uncertainty of @xmath13 @xcite is only a factor three or four worse than the current accuracy of cesium fountains .",
    "precision measurements with neutral atoms on the other hand are usually performed in an atomic fountain where laser cooled atoms ballistically propagate for durations up to one second . in the last decade ,",
    "atomic clocks and inertial sensors using matter wave interferometry in fountains have become two of the most important applications of cold atoms @xcite .",
    "about two dozens of fountain devices are now used for a variety of applications .",
    "it has been shown recently that microwave and optical clocks as well as matter - wave inertial sensors belong to the same general class of atom interferometers @xcite .",
    "as an example the current sensitivity in acceleration measurement with atom interferometers is on the order of @xmath14m.s@xmath15 in one minute measurement duration and , in a decade , cesium fountain clocks have gained almost two orders of magnitude in accuracy .",
    "as we show in this paper the fractional inaccuracy of the bnm - syrte fountains at paris observatory do not exceed today @xmath6 which corresponds to less than a single second error over 50 million years , allowing for the realization of si unit of time , the second , at the same level .",
    "about half a dozen fountains throughout the world at metrology institutes including ptb , nist , ien , npl , have now an accuracy near @xmath16 , making fountains a major contributor to the accuracy of the tai ( temps atomique international ) . in the future , many applications , such as positioning systems ( gps , galileo , glonass ) as well as scientific applications will benefit from these developments .",
    "for instance , deep space satellites have travel durations of several years across the solar system .",
    "precise monitoring of their position requires timescales with very low long term drift . also , using advanced time and frequency transfer systems ( operating at higher carrier frequency and chip rate and/or using two way transfer techniques ) may lead to positioning accuracy at the millimeter level for averaging time of a few hundred seconds",
    "this would impact many geodetic applications .    in this paper",
    "we show that prospects for further improvements are important .",
    "a frequency comparison between two fountains exhibits a stability of @xmath17 at 50 000 second averaging time , for the first time for atomic standards .",
    "this frequency resolution sets the stage for clock accuracy at the @xmath18 level for cesium , almost one order of magnitude potential gain , and even better for rubidium with its far reduced collision shift @xcite .",
    "we begin by recalling the basic operation of fountain atomic clocks and introduce several new techniques which demonstrate frequency measurements with a frequency resolution at the @xmath18 level .",
    "the first technique makes use of an ultra - stable cryogenic oscillator to interrogate the clock transition in the fountain .",
    "thanks to its extremely good short term frequency stability and low phase noise , the frequency stability of cesium and rubidium fountains is one order of magnitude below that of fountains using an ultra - stable quartz oscillator as interrogation oscillator .",
    "it currently reaches @xmath19 where @xmath20 is the averaging time in seconds .",
    "the fundamental quantum noise of the clock is now reached with atomic samples of up to @xmath21 atoms .",
    "the second advance deals with a new technique to measure and cancel with high precision the collisional shift in the clock .",
    "this shift is a major plague in cesium clocks and is much reduced ( two orders of magnitude ) in rubidium devices @xcite .",
    "the method uses interrupted adiabatic population transfer to prepare precise ratios of atomic densities .",
    "we show here that the cesium collisional shift can be measured and cancelled at the @xmath22 level . by comparing rubidium and cesium fountains over a duration of six years ,",
    "a new upper limit for the drift of fundamental constants has been obtained .",
    "finally we present the development status of the pharao cold atom space clock which is under industrial realization .",
    "pharao will fly onboard the international space station in the frame of the european aces mission in 2008 - 2009 and perform fundamental physics tests such as an improved measurement of einstein s red - shift , search for drift of fundamental constants and special relativity tests .",
    "in this section we briefly review recent advances on cesium and rubidium fountains performed in our laboratory , bnm - syrte where three laser cooled atomic fountains are in operation .",
    "the first one ( fo1 ) , in operation since 1994 @xcite , has been refurbished recently .",
    "the second one ( fom ) , a transportable fountain , is derived from the pharao space clock prototype @xcite .",
    "this fountain was transported on two occasions to the max planck institute in garching for direct frequency measurement of the hydrogen @xmath23 transition @xcite(see section on stability of fundamental constants ) .",
    "the third one ( fo2 ) , a dual fountain operating with @xmath0cs or @xmath1rb , is described in @xcite .",
    "here we only briefly describe the present design and recent improvements of fo1 and fo2 .",
    "a scheme of the fountain apparatus is shown in fig.[fig : fountain ] .",
    "an optical bench provides through optical fibers all beams required for manipulating and detecting the atoms .",
    "the fountains operate with lin @xmath24 lin optical molasses .",
    "atoms are cooled by six laser beams supplied by preadjusted fiber couplers precisely fixed to the vacuum tank and aligned along the axes of a 3 dimensional coordinate system , where the ( 111 ) direction is vertical . in fom , optical molasses is loaded from a @xmath0cs vapor and @xmath25 atoms are cooled in 400  ms . in fo1 and fo2 , optical molasses are loaded from a laser slowed atomic beam which is created by diffusing @xmath0cs or @xmath1rb vapor through a bundle of capillary tubes . with this setup @xmath26",
    "@xmath0cs atoms can be loaded in 400  ms in fo1 . in fo2 an additional transverse cooling of the atomic beam increases the loading rate to @xmath27 atoms in 100  ms for @xmath0cs .",
    "the atoms are launched upwards at 4  m.s@xmath7 by using moving optical molasses and cooled to @xmath28k in the moving frame by adiabatically decreasing the laser intensity and increasing the laser detuning . in normal operation atoms in the clock level @xmath29",
    "are selected by microwave and light pulses .",
    "about 50  cm above the capture zone , a cylindrical copper cavity ( te@xmath30 mode ) is used to probe the hyperfine transition in a ramsey interrogation scheme .",
    "the cavities have a loaded quality factor of @xmath31 for fo1 and @xmath32 for fo2 .",
    "both cavities can be fed with two coupling irises oppositely located on the cavity diameter .",
    "symmetric or asymmetric feedings are used to evaluate and reduce the residual doppler effect due to imperfections of the standing wave in the cavity and a tilt of the launch direction of the atoms .",
    "cs in fo2 fountain .",
    "the insert shows the central fringe with a fwhm of @xmath33  hz .",
    "each point is a single @xmath34  s measurement . at half maximum of the central fringe ,",
    "the signal to noise ratio is 5  000 , within @xmath35 of the fundamental quantum noise with @xmath36 detected atoms.,height=377 ]    the microwaves feeding the cavities are synthesized from the signal of an ultra - stable cryogenic sapphire resonator oscillator ( cso ) developed at the university of western australia @xcite . as shown in fig.[fig : cryogenic_oscillator ] , the three fountains use the same cso oscillator to synthesize the microwave signals probing the atomic transition . to reduce its drift ,",
    "the cso is weakly phase - locked to a hydrogen maser .",
    "this maser contributes to the local timescale and tai ( temps atomique international ) through various time and frequency transfer systems . with this setup ,",
    "atomic fountains are used as primary frequency standard to calibrate tai and can be compared to other remote clocks .",
    "nowadays , atomic fountains are the dominant contributors to the accuracy of tai .    the 11.932  ghz output signal from the cso is converted in order to synthesize 11.98  ghz and 100  mhz signals , both phase coherent with the h - maser .",
    "fo2 uses the 11.98  ghz signal to generate 9.192  ghz by a home - build low noise synthesizer which achieves a frequency stability of @xmath37 at 1  s by operating only in the microwave domain .",
    "this scheme reduces at the minimum the phase noise and the spurious side - bands induced by the down conversion process .",
    "a similar setup is used to synthesize the 6.834  ghz required for the fo2 fountain operation with @xmath1rb .",
    "the 150  m distance between fo1 , fom and the cso prevents the direct use of the 11.98  ghz signal . instead",
    ", a 100  mhz signal is synthesized from the cso and distributed to fo1 and fom via a high stability rf cable .",
    "finally , a 100  mhz to 9.192  ghz home - made synthesizer generates the interrogation signal .",
    "these additional steps degrade the phase noise of the interrogation signal in fo1 and fom with a frequency stability currently limited to @xmath38 at 1  s.       for a @xmath0cs primary standard .",
    "also shown is the fractional frequency instability for the differential measurement between hd and ld ( blue triangles ) . this curve demonstrates an excellent rejection of the cso fluctuations in the differential measurement , allowing for a fractional frequency resolution of @xmath39 at 20  000  s. in this measurement , the collisional shift at ld is the frequency difference between hd and ld ( @xmath40 ) .",
    "it is obtained with a resolution close to 2 parts in @xmath18 and it is stable at the @xmath41 level over 20  000  s.,height=302 ]    atoms selected in @xmath42 cross the microwave cavity on the way up and on the way down , completing the two ramsey interactions . after the ramsey interrogation , the populations @xmath43 and @xmath44 of both clock levels @xmath45 and @xmath46 are measured by fluorescence . the number of detected atoms is typically @xmath41 of the initially captured atoms .",
    "the signal @xmath47 is equal to the atomic transition probability and is insensitive to atom number fluctuations .",
    "a typical ramsey resonance is presented in fig.[fig : ramsey_fringes ] . from the transition probability , measured on both sides of the central ramsey fringe ,",
    "we compute an error signal to lock the microwave interrogation frequency to the atomic transition using a digital servo loop . at the quantum limit one expects @xmath48 for @xmath49 detected atoms , where @xmath50 is the shot to shot standard deviation of the fluctuations of the transition probability .",
    "the frequency corrections are applied to a computer controlled high resolution dds synthesizer in the microwave generator .",
    "these corrections are used for the accuracy and frequency stability evaluations of each fountain .",
    "the fractional frequency instability of the fo2 fountain operating with @xmath51 detected atoms and measured against the cryogenic oscillator is plotted fig.[fig : fo2vsfo1 ] . at the quantum limit one",
    "expects a frequency instability , characterized by the fractional allan standard deviation , given by : @xmath52 , where @xmath53 is the atomic quality factor , @xmath20 and @xmath54 are respectively the averaging time and the cycle duration . above the servo - loop time",
    "constant ( @xmath55  s ) and below 100  s , the fractional instabilities of fo1 and fo2 are @xmath56 and @xmath2 respectively , within @xmath57 of the standard quantum limit . for longer averaging time",
    "the frequency instability is dominated by the frequency fluctuations of the cso and the h - maser .",
    "this is the first demonstration of routinely operated primary frequency standards with frequency instabilities in the low @xmath58 region",
    ". we will show below that this excellent short term stability enables an evaluation of systematic frequency shifts and frequency comparisons between clocks at the @xmath18 level in a few days .",
    "all known systematic frequency shifts are evaluated in our fountains .",
    "the accuracy budget for each shift is given in table i for @xmath0cs .",
    "the overall uncertainty , the quadratic sum of all uncertainties is @xmath59 for fo1 , @xmath60 for fo2 and @xmath61 for fom . in the following ,",
    "we only discuss some of the most bothersome effects and the recent improvements in their evaluation .",
    "a more complete discussion of systematic effects can be found in @xcite .",
    ".systematic fractional frequency shifts for fo1 and fo2 .",
    "[ cols= \" < , > , > , > \" , ]      the cold collision frequency shift is known to be particularly large for @xmath0cs @xcite .",
    "for instance , when fo2 is operated at its best frequency stability the shift is @xmath62 .",
    "the linear extrapolation of this effect to zero density is known to be delicate .",
    "as pointed out in the first paper observing the cold collision shift in @xmath0cs fountains @xcite , selecting atoms in the clock levels using microwaves may lead to distortions of the position or velocity distribution .",
    "methods to cope with these effects have been proposed @xcite , yet the linear extrapolations have proved to be valid only at the 5% to 10% level .    to evaluate the collision shift at the @xmath22 level ( a requirement for a frequency stability and accuracy at @xmath18 ) , we recently developed a new method based on interrupted adiabatic passage to select atoms in the @xmath29 state @xcite .",
    "atomic samples are prepared by transferring atoms from @xmath63 to @xmath29 with an efficiency precisely equal to @xmath64 ( high density , hd ) or @xmath65 ( low density , ld ) . with this method ,",
    "the atom number is changed without affecting either the velocity or the position distributions .",
    "therefore , the density ratio ld / hd is equal to the atom number ratio and is @xmath66 at the @xmath22 level .",
    "since the collisional shift is proportional to the atomic density , it can be extrapolated to zero density with this accuracy .",
    "in addition , with this method , the cavity frequency pulling @xcite is also accounted for .     between low density and high density configurations as a function of the number of fountain cycles .",
    "the measured ratio is @xmath67 .",
    "each cycle lasts @xmath68  s. the stability ( solid line ) decreases as the square root of the number of cycles.,height=264 ]    the collisional shift is measured in real - time with the following differential method .",
    "the clock is operated alternately in the hd configuration for @xmath69  s and in the ld configuration for the next @xmath69  s. this timing choice minimizes the noise due to frequency instabilities of the cso oscillator . as seen in fig.[fig : fo2hdbd ] , at @xmath70  s the stability of fo2 against cso is near its minimum .",
    "also , over this @xmath70  s period , density fluctuations do not exceed @xmath71 .",
    "one the other hand , due to slow changes in the clock environment , we observe that the density may fluctuate up to @xmath72 over one or several days .",
    "our differential method efficiently cancels these slow daily density variations .    in @xcite",
    ", our calculations predicted that the interrupted adiabatic passage method does provide a ld / hd ratio precisely equal to 1/2 to better than @xmath22 .",
    "initially , we were experimentally able to realize this ratio at the @xmath73 level .",
    "improvements in the accuracy of the microwave frequency synthesis for the adiabatic passage enable us to now reach a precision of @xmath74 for this ratio .    during routine operation of the fountains ,",
    "the number of detected atoms in each hyperfine state is recorded for both ld and hd configurations . as seen in fig.[fig : ratiohdldfo1 ] , the allan standard deviation of the measured ld / hd atom number ratio decreases as the square root of the number of fountain cycles ( or time ) , down to a few parts in @xmath75 for one day of averaging . despite the @xmath72 slow drift in atom number over days",
    ", this ratio remains remarkably constant .",
    "the ld / hd atom number ratio in @xmath63 is found equal to @xmath66 to better than @xmath22 .",
    "this method relies on fluorescence measurements made in the detection zones for each fountain cycle .",
    "various measurements have been performed to establish that the measurement of this ratio is not biased by more than @xmath22 due optical thickness effects in the detection . on the other hand , the ld / hd atom number ratio in @xmath29",
    "is found to slightly differ from 1/2 by @xmath76 typically .",
    "this deviation originates from atoms in the @xmath77 states populated by imperfections in the state preparation .",
    "this deviation must be taken into account in the evaluation of the collisional shift . in @xcite",
    ", we showed that the frequency shift of the clock transition due to @xmath78 atoms is at most @xmath79 of that of collisions between @xmath29 and @xmath63 clock states .",
    "their contribution to the collisional frequency shift is thus at the @xmath80 level . in summary , when this adiabatic passage method is used , we take a @xmath74 relative uncertainty for the determination of the high density cold collision shift",
    ".      spectral impurities of the interrogation signal and microwave leakage may cause shifts of the clock frequency . in order to evaluate these effects , we make use of their dependance with the microwave power .",
    "we alternate the ramsey interrogation between a configuration of @xmath81 and @xmath82 pulses , i.e. a variation of a factor of 9 in microwave power . within the resolution of the measurement of @xmath83 ,",
    "no frequency shift is observed . in this",
    "measurement , four data sets are recorded , ld and hd at @xmath81 and ld and hd at @xmath82 . in this way , the collisional shift ( which may also change with the microwave power ) is evaluated and cancelled for both @xmath81 and @xmath82 configurations by the differential method described above , allowing for the extraction of a possible influence of microwave spectral purity and leakage alone .",
    "a frequency shift due to the first order doppler effect can occur if the microwave field inside the interrogation cavity exhibits a phase gradient and the atoms pass the cavity with a slight inclination from the cavity axis .",
    "we determine the frequency shift due to the linear component of the phase gradient in a differential measurement by coupling the microwave interrogation signal `` from the left '' , `` from the right '' or symmetrically into the cavity , providing 3 data sets .",
    "the observed shift between the `` left '' and symmetric configuration is @xmath84 while the shift between the `` right '' and symmetric configuration is @xmath85 .",
    "the magnitude of this residual first order doppler effect is consistent with a simple estimate of the residual traveling wave component in the cavity @xcite together with a misalignment between the local gravity and the launch direction @xmath86  mrad .",
    "the mean of these two measurements is @xmath87 and consistent with zero , indicating that the traveling wave component is well cancelled in the symmetric coupling configuration . using the atoms as a probe",
    ", we can indeed ensure that the cavity is fed symmetrically to better than @xmath73 in amplitude and @xmath69  mrad in phase , which cancels the effect of linear phase gradient to @xmath71 , better than the above measurement resolution . as a consequence ,",
    "only the quadratic phase dependence of the microwave field remains as a possible source of residual doppler shift . a worst case estimate based on @xcite gives an upper bound for the fractional frequency shift of 3 parts in @xmath88 , which we conservatively take as the overall uncertainty associated with residual first order doppler effect .",
    "other contributions to the accuracy budget are listed in table [ tb : accuracy ] .",
    "the total accuracy currently reaches @xmath89 parts in @xmath88 for fo1 , @xmath90 parts in @xmath88 for fo2 , and @xmath91 parts in @xmath88 for fom .",
    "this represents a one order of magnitude improvement over uncooled cesium devices . in the future",
    ", we anticipate that the extensive use of the methods described above will enable us to bring the accuracy of @xmath0cs fountains below 2 parts in @xmath88 and the accuracy of @xmath1rb to a even lower value thanks to its 100-fold lower collision shift @xcite .",
    "s of averaging , the stability between the two fountains is @xmath93 parts in @xmath88 .",
    "also plotted is the fractional frequency instability of fo1 ( red circles ) and fo2 ( black squares ) against the cso locked to the hydrogen maser.,height=340 ]    the routine operation of two atomic fountains near the quantum noise limit using the cso as an interrogation oscillator enables frequency comparisons in the low @xmath18 range , for the first time for primary frequency standards .",
    "figure [ fig : fo2vsfo1 ] presents the frequency stability between fo1 , fo2 and cso .",
    "each fountain is operated in differential mode in order to permanently evaluate and cancel the collision shift .",
    "appropriate post - processing of the data thus enables us to construct for each fountain , a clock which is free of the cold collision shift and whose stability is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : fo2vsfo1 ] against the cso oscillator . fig .",
    "[ fig : fo2vsfo1 ] also shows that the combined stability between these two clocks reaches @xmath94 at @xmath5  s , a previously unattained long term stability . from this data",
    ", we infer that at least one of the two fountains has a stability below @xmath95 at the same averaging time .",
    "the mean fractional frequency difference between the two fountains is @xmath96 , fully compatible with the accuracy of each of the two clocks as stated in table [ tb : accuracy ] .",
    "this very good stability sets a new challenge for time and frequency transfer systems between remote clocks . as an example",
    ", long distance frequency comparisons between ptb and nist fountains were performed at the level of only @xmath97 after 2 weeks of averaging with gps @xcite .",
    "similarly , comparisons between bnm - syrte and ptb recently achieved @xmath98 for one day of integration with twstft @xcite .",
    "highly accurate atomic clocks offer the possibility to perform laboratory tests of possible variations of fundamental constants .",
    "such tests interestingly complement experimental tests of the local lorentz invariance and of the universality of free - fall to experimentally establish the validity of einstein s equivalence principle ( eep ) .",
    "they also complement tests of the variability of fundamental constants on different timescales , geological timescale @xcite and cosmological timescale @xcite .",
    "nearly all unification theories ( in particular string theories ) violate eep at some level @xcite which strongly motivates experimental searches for such violations .",
    "tests described here are based on highly accurate comparisons of atomic energies . in principle",
    ", it is possible to express any atomic energy as a function of the elementary particle properties and the coupling constants of fundamental interactions using quantum electro - dynamics ( qed ) and quantum chromo - dynamics ( qcd ) . as a consequence , it is possible to deduce a constraint to the variation of fundamental constants from a measurement of the stability of the ratio between various atomic frequencies",
    ".    different types of atomic transitions are linked to different fundamental constants .",
    "the hyperfine frequency in a given electronic state of alkali - like atoms ( involved for instance in @xmath0cs , @xmath1rb @xcite , @xmath99hg@xmath100 @xcite , @xmath101yb@xmath100 microwave clocks ) can be approximated by : @xmath102 where the superscript @xmath103 indicates that the quantity depends on each particular atom .",
    "@xmath104 is the rydberg constant , @xmath105 the speed of light , @xmath106 the nuclear g - factor , @xmath107 the electron to proton mass ratio and @xmath108 the fine structure constant . in this equation",
    ", the dimension is given by @xmath109 , the atomic unit of frequency .",
    "@xmath110 is a numerical factor which depends on each particular atom .",
    "@xmath111 is a relativistic correction factor to the motion of the valence electron in the vicinity of the nucleus .",
    "this factor strongly depends on the atomic number @xmath112 and has a major contribution for heavy nuclei .",
    "similarly , the frequency of an electronic transition ( involved in h @xcite , @xmath113ca @xcite , @xmath99hg@xmath100 @xcite , @xmath101yb@xmath100 @xcite optical clocks ) can be approximated by @xmath114 again , the dimension is given by @xmath115 .",
    "@xmath116 is a numerical factor .",
    "@xmath117 is a function of @xmath108 which accounts for relativistic effects , spin - orbit couplings and many - body effects . ) .",
    "a precision of 1 to 10 @xmath118 on the sensitivity is sufficient to interpret current experiments . ]    according to @xcite , the sensitivity to g - factors @xmath106 and to the proton mass @xmath119 can be related to a sensitivity to fundamental parameters , namely the mass scale of qcd @xmath120 and the quark masses @xmath121 and @xmath122 .",
    "therefore , any measurement of the ratio between atomic frequencies can be interpreted as testing the stability of 4 dimensionless fundamental constants : @xmath108 , @xmath123 , @xmath124 and @xmath125 .",
    "the sensitivity to @xmath124 is relatively weak compared to the 3 other constants .",
    "the sensitivity coefficients have now been calculated for a large number of atomic species used in atomic clocks @xcite .",
    "reliable knowledge of these sensitivity coefficient at the 1@xmath118 to @xmath126 level is required to deduce limits to a possible variation of each of these fundamental parameters by combining the results of several complementary clock comparisons .",
    "rb frequencies referenced to the @xmath0cs fountains over 72 months .",
    "the 1999 measurement value ( @xmath127hz ) is conventionally used as reference . a weighted linear fit to the data ( solid line ) gives @xmath128 .",
    "mjd represent modified julian dates.,height=302 ]    fig.[fig : alphapoint ] summarizes the comparison between @xmath1rb and @xmath0cs hyperfine frequencies that have been performed using the above described fountain ensemble over a duration of 6 years . each point on",
    "the graph summarizes the result of one to two months of measurements which include each time an evaluation of all known systematic effects @xcite",
    ". a weighted linear fit to the data in fig.[fig : alphapoint ] determines how these measurements constrain a possible time variation of @xmath129 .",
    "we find : @xmath130 which represents a 100-fold improvement over the hg@xmath12-h hyperfine energy comparison @xcite .",
    "this results implies the following constraint : @xmath131 using the calculated link between g - factors and @xmath132 , @xmath122 and @xmath120 ( ref .",
    "@xcite ) , we find the following constraint to the variation of fundamental constants : @xmath133^{0.174}\\left[m_{s}/\\lambda_{\\mathrm{qcd } }   \\right]^{0.027}\\right)=(0.5\\pm5.3)\\times 10^{-16}\\,\\mathrm{yr}^{-1}.\\ ] ] as pointed out in @xcite , the hypothetical unification of all interactions implies that a variation of the fine - structure constant @xmath108 should be accompanied by a variation of the strong interaction constant and of elementary particle masses . within this framework ,",
    "current estimates gives @xcite : @xmath134 within this theoretical framework , the present comparison between rb and cs fountains ( eq .  [ eq : alpha1 ] ) constrains a time variation of @xmath108 at the level of @xmath135  yr@xmath7 . in the future , improvement of @xmath1rb and @xmath0cs fountain to accuracies of few parts in @xmath88 and repeated comparisons over several years between these devices will improve the above result by at least one order of magnitude .    the transportable fountain fom has similarly been used as a primary standard in the measurement of the frequency @xmath136 of the hydrogen 1s-2s transition performed at max - planck institut in garching ( germany ) @xcite .",
    "two measurements performed over a 4 year period constrain fractional variations of @xmath137 at the level of @xmath138.yr@xmath7 .",
    "this constrains fractional variations of @xmath139 at the same level @xcite . combining these results with other recent comparisons ( @xmath99hg@xmath12 optical clock versus @xmath0cs fountain @xcite , @xmath101yb@xmath12 optical clock versus @xmath0cs fountain @xcite ) , it is possible to independently set limits on variations of @xmath108 , @xmath140 and @xmath141 .",
    "these measurements test the stability of the electroweak interaction ( @xmath108 ) and of the strong interaction ( @xmath140 , @xmath141 ) separately @xcite and independently of any cosmological model .",
    "pharao , as `` projet dhorloge atomique par refroidissement datomes en orbite '' , has started in 1993 with the objective of performing fundamental metrology with a space cold atom clock @xcite .",
    "the combination of laser cooling techniques @xcite and microgravity environment indeed allows the development of space clocks with unprecedented performances .    to demonstrate the feasibility of a compact cold atom clock operating in microgravity , bnm - syrte and lkb with the support of cnes ( the french space agency ) have undertaken the construction of a clock prototype in 1994 .",
    "the prototype was successfully tested in 1997 in jet plane parabolic flights @xcite .",
    "the same year , esa , the european space agency , selected the aces proposal ( atomic clock ensemble in space ) @xcite .",
    "aces will perform fundamental physics tests by using the pharao cold atom clock , a h - maser ( developed by the neuchtel observatory ) and a time and frequency transfer system mwl on a platform developed by esa .",
    "this ensemble will fly on board the international space station in 2008 - 2009 . the station is orbiting at a mean elevation of 400  km with a 90  mn period and an inclination angle of 51.6@xmath142 .",
    "the planned mission duration is 18 months . during the first 6 months",
    ", the performances of the pharao cold atom clock in space will be established .",
    "thanks to the microgravity environment the linewidth of the atomic resonance will be varied by two orders of magnitude ( from 11  hz to 110  mhz ) .",
    "the target performance is @xmath143 for the frequency stability and @xmath18 for the frequency accuracy . in the second part of the mission ,",
    "the onboard clocks will be compared to a number of ground based clocks operating both in the microwave and the optical domain .    in 2001 ,",
    "pharao entered into industrial development under the management of cnes with the construction of two clock models , an engineering model for test and validation , and a flight model .",
    "the clock is composed of four main sub - systems as shown in figure [ fig : pharao_setup ] .",
    "each sub - system has been subcontracted to different manufacturers and they will be assembled at cnes toulouse to validate the clock operation .",
    "the laser source provides all the laser tools for cooling , launching and detection of the atoms .",
    "two extended cavity diode lasers @xcite are used as master lasers .",
    "one of them injection - locks two slave diode lasers to provide high laser power for capturing @xmath144 in optical molasses .",
    "the second laser is used as a repumping laser .",
    "the two master laser frequencies are stabilized by servo - loops using absorption signals through cesium cells .",
    "the other laser frequencies are synthesized by using 6 acousto - optic modulators ( aom ) .",
    "these aom also control the laser beam amplitudes .",
    "the output laser beams are connected to the cesium tube through polarization maintaining optical fibers .",
    "figure [ fig : pharao_lasersource ] shows the pharao optical bench during the assembly .",
    "the total mass is 20  kg , the volume is 26 liters and the power consumption is 40  w.    the cesium tube provides the atomic source , the controlled environment for the atomic manipulation , the interrogation and detection process ( figure [ fig : pharao_lasersource ] ) . its design is similar to atomic fountains except for the interrogation zone where a two zone ramsey cavity is used . the ramsey cavity ( figure [ fig : pharao_ramseycavity ] ) has been specially developed for this application and forms a ring resonator .",
    "one coupling system feeds two symmetrical lateral waveguides which meet at the two interaction zones .",
    "the advantage of this configuration is to provide very weak phase disturbances of the internal microwave field while enabling large holes ( @xmath145  mm ) for the atom path . the flight model of the microwave cavity is currently mounted ( september 2004 ) inside the atomic fountain fo1 to measure the end to end cavity phase shift before integration in the flight model .",
    "these measurements and numerical simulations , should enable us to determine the cavity phase shift effect with an accuracy of a few parts in @xmath146 .",
    "the cesium tube is designed for a vacuum of @xmath147 pa in order to minimize the cold atom losses with the background gas collisions .",
    "three layers of magnetic shields and a servo system maintain the magnetic field instability in the interaction zone below 20  pt .",
    "similarly , the interaction zone temperature is regulated to better than 0.2@xmath142c .",
    "the microwave chain synthesizes the two radiofrequency signals for the state selection cavity and the interrogation cavity .",
    "a 100  mhz vcxo ( voltage control oscillator ) is phase - locked to an ultra stable oscillator ( uso ) for the short term stability and to the space hydrogen maser ( shm ) for the medium term .",
    "three usos have been space qualified for our application .",
    "we have compared these quartz oscillators to the bnm - syrte cso .",
    "their frequency stability is on the order of @xmath148 from 1 to 10  s integration time .",
    "the engineering model of the chain has been fully tested and the results are in agreement with the performance objectives of the space clock .",
    "a further performance verification is currently being made by using the microwave source in the fo2 fountain .",
    "all pharao sub - systems are driven and controlled by a computer ( ugb , on board data processing unit ) .",
    "the ugb also manages the data flux between the clock and the aces payload .",
    "when assembled , the clock fills a volume of about 200  l for a weight of 91  kg and an electric consumption of 114  w.    the final assembly of the engineering model of the pharao clock will start at the end of 2005 at cnes - toulouse . after the clock functional and performance test",
    "are made , the flight model will be assembled and finally tested .",
    "for both models , we expect to reach @xmath16 frequency accuracy in the earth gravity environment and @xmath18 in microgravity environment .",
    "the objectives of pharao / aces are ( i ) to explore and demonstrate the high performances of the cold atom space clock ( ii ) to achieve time and frequency transfer with stability better than @xmath18 and ( iii ) to perform fundamental physics tests .",
    "a detailed account can be found in @xcite .",
    "the combination of pharao with shm will define an on board frequency reference having a long term stability and accuracy provided by pharao and a short term stability determined by shm .",
    "the resulting fluctuations of aces frequency reference are expected to be about 10  ps per day .",
    "the orbit of iss will allow ground users to compare and synchronize their own clock to aces clocks , leading to a worldwide access to the ultra stable frequency reference of aces .",
    "the results of these comparisons at @xmath18 level will provide new tests in fundamental physics such as an improved measurement of einstein s gravitational red - shift , a search for a possible anisotropy of the speed of light and a search for possible space - time variations of fundamental physical constants , similar to that described above in section [ sec : alpha ] .",
    "the current most precise measurement of the red - shift was made by the space mission gravitational probe a ( gpa ) with an accuracy of @xmath149 @xcite .",
    "pharao / aces will improve this test by a factor 30 . by allowing worldwide comparison between distant clocks , operating with different atomic species , aces will play a major role in establishing new limits for variations of fundamental constants .",
    "finally , pharao / aces will be a pioneering cold atom experiment in space .",
    "the pharao technology can be extended for the development of a new generation of high performance inertial sensors and clocks using matter wave interferometry . as for atomic clocks",
    ", such sensors may achieve extremely high sensitivity in micro - gravity environment , as pointed out in the esa hyper project @xcite .",
    "these instruments could then be used for a large variety of scientific space missions such as vlbi , gravitational wave detection , and deep space navigation .",
    "with methods described in this paper , we expect to bring the accuracy of @xmath0cs fountains at 1 or 2 parts in @xmath88 . for @xmath1rb , a frequency stability of @xmath150",
    "i.e. @xmath151 at one day seems accessible , together with an excellent accuracy .",
    "routine operation of these devices over several years will have a profound impact on ultra - precise time keeping and fundamental physics tests . to take full benefit of this performance ,",
    "long distance time transfer systems must be upgraded .",
    "in particular , the aces time and frequency transfer system will enable comparisons at the level of @xmath18 per day in 2008 - 2009 .",
    "another route currently under study makes use of telecom optical fibers and over @xmath152  km distance a stability of @xmath153 at 1  s and @xmath154 at one 1  day has already been demonstrated @xcite .",
    "extension to larger distances is under study .",
    "more generally , clocks operating in the optical domain rather than in the microwave domain are making rapid progress on the ground @xcite .",
    "the frequency of these clocks is four to five orders of magnitude higher than the frequency of microwave standards and with an equivalent linewidth , the quality factor of the resonance exceeds that of cesium clocks by the same factor . using laser cooled atoms or ions and ultra - stable laser sources @xcite , these optical clocks will likely open the @xmath155 stability range . using the wide frequency comb generated by femtosecond lasers , it is now possible to connect virtually all frequency standards together throughout the microwave to ultra - violet frequency domain @xcite . the attractive proposal of @xcite to realize an optical lattice clock is currently receiving a great deal of interest . in this method ,",
    "neutral atoms are confined in an optical lattice in the lamb - dicke regime .",
    "light - shifts of the clock levels induced by the lattice beams are differentially compensated at an appropriate laser detuning .",
    "this proposal combines several interesting features such as long observation time , large number of atoms , and recoil - free resonance @xcite .",
    "promising atoms to implement this method are alkaline - earth atoms because of their strongly forbidden inter - combination line .",
    "ca @xcite , sr @xcite and yb @xcite are actively studied .    in the frequency stability range of @xmath155 , it is clear that fluctuations of the earth potential at the clock location induced , for instance , by sea tides will affect comparisons between distant clocks .",
    "this limitation could be turned into an advantage if one installs such ultra - stable clock in space where the gravitational potential can present far reduced fluctuations compared to ground . as in the past , clocks with very high stability will have an ever increasing impact on scientific and industrial applications .",
    "bnm - syrte and laboratoire kastler brossel are units associes au cnrs , umr 8630 and 8552 .",
    "this work was supported in part by bnm , cnrs , cnes and esa .",
    "p. wolf is on leave from bureau international des poids et mesures , pavillon de breteuil , 92312 svres cedex , france . j. grnert and l. cacciapuoti acknowledge financial support from the cauac european research training network .",
    "see for instance , c. will , theory and experiment in gravitational physics , cambridge university press , ( 1993 ) .",
    "see for instance proceedings of the 6@xmath156 symposium on frequency standards and metrology , gill p. ed .",
    ", world scientific , singapore , 2001 .",
    "h. margolis , g. barwood , g. huang , h. klein , s. lea , k. szymaniec , p. gill , science * 306 * , 1355 ( 2004 )    clairon a. et al .",
    ", a cesium fountain frequency standard : recent results , ieee trans . instrum . meas .",
    "44 ( 1995 ) 128 .",
    "bord c.j .",
    ", atomic clocks and inertial sensors , metrologia 39 ( 2002 ) 435 .",
    "sortais y. et al . ,",
    "cold collision frequency shifts in a @xmath1rb fountain , phys .",
    "85 ( 2000 ) 3117 .",
    "fertig c. , gibble k. , measurement and cancellation of the cold collision frequency shift in an @xmath1rb fountain clock , phys .",
    "85 ( 2000 ) 1622 .",
    "laurent p. et al . , a cold atom clock in absence of gravity , eur .",
    "j. d 3 ( 1998 ) 201 .",
    ", chang s. and luiten a.n . , cryogenic sapphire oscillator with exceptionally high frequency stability , ieee trans",
    ". instrum . meas .",
    "50 ( 2001 ) 519 .",
    "vian c. et al .",
    ", bnm - syrte fountains : recent results , submitted to ieee trans . instrum",
    "gibble k. , chu s. , a laser cooled cs frequency standard and a measurement of the frequency shift due to ultra - cold collisions , phys .",
    "70 ( 1993 ) 1771 .",
    "ghezali s. , laurent p. , lea s.n .",
    ", clairon a. , an experimental study of the spin - exchange frequency shift in a laser cooled cesium fountain standard , europhys",
    "36 ( 1996 ) 25 .",
    "pereira dos santos f. et al .",
    ", controlling the cold collision shift in high precision atomic interferometry , phys .",
    "( 2002 ) 233004 .",
    "bize s. et al . , cavity frequency pulling in cold atom fountains , ieee trans .",
    "instrum . meas .",
    "50 ( 2001 ) 503 .",
    "marion h. et al . , first observation of feshbach resonances at very low magnetic field in a @xmath0cs fountain , proc . of the 2004 eftf ( 2004 )",
    "arxiv : physics/0407064 .",
    "schrder r. , hbner u. , griebsch d. , design and realization of the microwave cavity in the ptb caesium atomic fountain clock csf1 , ieee trans .",
    "49 ( 2002 ) 383 .",
    "parker t.e .",
    "et al . , first comparison of remote cesium fountains , proc . of the 2001 ieee intl .",
    "( 2001 ) 63 .",
    "richard j .- y .",
    "et al . , comparison of remote cesium fountains using gps p3 and twstft links , proc . of the 2004 eftf ( 2004 ) .",
    "damour t. , dyson f. , the oklo bound on the time variation of the fine - structure constant revisited , nucl .",
    "b 480 ( 1996 ) 37 .",
    "fujii y. , time - variability of the fine - structure constant expected from the oklo constraint and the qso absorption lines , phys .",
    "b 573 ( 2003 ) 39 . webb j.k .",
    "et al . , further evidence for cosmological evolution of the fine structure constant , phys .",
    "87 ( 2001 ) 091301 .",
    "srianand r. , chand h. , petitjean p. , aracil b. , limits on the time variation of the electromagnetic fine - structure constant in the low energy limit from absorption lines in the spectra of distant quasars , phys .",
    "rev . lett .",
    "92 ( 2004 ) 121302 .",
    "marciano w.j .",
    ", time variation of the fundamental `` constants '' and kaluza - klein theories , phys .",
    "52 ( 1984 ) 489 .",
    "damour t. , polyakov a. , the string dilaton and a least coupling principle , nucl .",
    "b 423 ( 1994 ) 532 .",
    "damour t. , piazza f. , veneziano g. , runaway dilaton and equivalence principle violations , phys .",
    "( 2002 ) 081601 .",
    "marion h. et al . , search for variations of fundamental constants using atomic fountain clocks , phys .",
    "( 2003 ) 150801 .",
    "prestage j.d . ,",
    "tjoelker r.l .",
    ", maleki l. , atomic clocks and variations of the fine structure constant , phys .",
    "74 ( 1995 ) 3511 .",
    "berkeland d.j .",
    "et al . , laser - cooled mercury ion frequency standard , phys .",
    "80 ( 1998 ) 2089 . niering m. et al . ,",
    "measurement of the hydrogen 1s-2s transition frequency by phase coherent comparison with a microwave cesium fountain clock , phys .",
    "84 ( 2000 ) 5496 .",
    "helmcke j. et al . ,",
    "optical frequency standard based on cold ca atoms , ieee trans .",
    "instrum . meas .",
    "52 ( 2003 ) 250 .",
    "bize s. et al .",
    ", testing the stability of fundamental constants with the @xmath99hg@xmath12 single - ion optical clock , phys .",
    "( 2003 ) 150802 .",
    "stenger j. et al . , absolute frequency measurement of the 435.5  nm @xmath101yb@xmath12 clock transition with a kerr - lens mode - locked femtosecond laser , opt .",
    "26 ( 2001 ) 1589 .",
    "peik e. et al .",
    ", in proc . of the joint mtg .",
    "ieee intl .",
    "symp . and eftf conf .",
    "flambaum v.v . , ( 2003 )",
    "arxiv : physics/0302015 .",
    "flambaum v.v .",
    ", leinweber d.b . ,",
    "thomas a.w .",
    ", young r.d . , limits on the temporal variation of the fine structure constant , quark masses and strong interaction from quasar absorption spectra and atomic clock experiments , phys .",
    "d 69 ( 2004 ) 115006 .",
    "dzuba v.a .",
    ", flambaum v.v.,webb j.k .",
    ", calculations of the relativistic effects in many - electron atoms and space - time variation of fundamental constants , phys .",
    "a 59 ( 1999 ) 230 .",
    "dzuba v.a . ,",
    "flambaum v.v . , webb j.k . ,",
    "space - time variation of physical constants and relativistic corrections in atoms , phys .",
    "( 1999 ) 888 .",
    "dzuba v.a . ,",
    "flambaum v.v . , webb j.k . , atomic optical clocks and search for variation of the fine - structure constant , phys .",
    "a 61 ( 2000 ) 034502 .",
    "karshenboim s.g .",
    ", some possibilities for laboratory searches for variations of fundamental constants , can .",
    "78 ( 2000 ) 639 .",
    "dzuba v.a . ,",
    "flambaum v.v . ,",
    "marchenko m.v .",
    ", relativistic effects in sr , dy , ybii and ybiii and search for variation of the fine structure constant , phys .",
    "a 68 ( 2003 ) 022506 .",
    "angstmann e.j . ,",
    "dzuba v.a .",
    ", flambaum v.v . , relativistic effects in two valence - electron atoms and ions and the search for variation of the fine - structure constant , phys . rev .",
    "a 70 ( 2004 ) 014102 .",
    "bize s. et al . , high - accuracy measurement of the @xmath1rb ground - tate hyperfine splitting in an atomic fountain , europhys .",
    "( 1999 ) 558 .",
    "bize s. et al .",
    ", in proc .",
    "of the 6@xmath156 symposium on frequency standards and metrology , gill p. ed . ,",
    "world scientific , singapore ( 2001 ) 53 .",
    "calmet x. , fritzsch h. , the cosmological evolution of the nucleon mass and the electroweak coupling constants , eur .",
    "j. c 24 ( 2002 ) 639 .",
    "langacker p. , segre g. , strassler m.j .",
    ", implications of gauge unification for time variation of the fine structure constant , phys .",
    "b 528 ( 2002 ) 121 . fischer m. et al .",
    ", new limits on the drift of fundamental constants from laboratory measurements , phys .",
    "92 ( 2004 ) 230802 .",
    ", absolute frequency measurements of hg@xmath100 and ca optical clock transitions with a femtosecond laser , phys .",
    "86 ( 2001 ) 4996 .",
    "peik e. et al .",
    ", new limit on the present temporal variation of the fine structure constant , ( 2004 ) arxiv : physics/0402132 .",
    "laurent p. et al . , cesium fountains and micro - gravity clocks , in proc .",
    "of the 25@xmath156 moriond conf . on dark matter in cosmology , clocks and tests of fundamental laws ( 1995 )",
    "see for instance j. opt .",
    "b ( special issue ) 6 ( 1989 ) 2020 .",
    "salomon c. , veillet c. , aces : atomic clock ensemble in space , proc .",
    "of the 1@xmath157 esa symposium on space station utilization , sp385 ( 1996 ) 295 .",
    "allard f. , maksimovic i. , abgrall m. , laurent p. , automatic system to control the operation of an extended cavity diode laser , rev .",
    "instrum . 75 ( 2004 ) 54 .",
    "salomon c. et al .",
    ", cold atoms in space and atomic clocks : aces , c.r . acad .",
    "paris , t2 srie 4 ( 2001 ) 1313 .",
    "vessot r.f.c .",
    "et al . , tests of relativistic gravitation with a space - borne hydrogen maser , phys .",
    "45 ( 1980 ) 2081 .",
    "hyper : hyper - precision cold atom interferometry in space , esa - sci ( 2000 ) 10 .",
    "narbonneau f. et al .",
    ", proc . of the 2004 eftf conf .",
    "see for instance proc . of the 2003 ifcs - eftf conf .",
    "young b.c . , cruz f.c .",
    ", itano w.m .",
    ", bergquist j.c .",
    ", visible lasers with subhertz linewidths , phys . rev .",
    "82 ( 1999 ) 3799 .",
    ", holzwarth r. , hnsch t.w . , optical frequency metrology , nature 416 ( 2002 ) 233 .",
    "katori h. , spectroscopy of strontium atoms in the lamb - dicke confinement , proc .",
    "of the 6@xmath158 symposium on frequency standards and metrology , gill p. ed . ,",
    "world scientific , singapore ( 2001 ) 323 .",
    "h. katori , m. takamoto , v.g .",
    "palchikov , v.d .",
    "ovsiannikov , ultrastable optical clock with neutral atoms in an engineered ligth shift trap , phys .",
    "91 ( 2003 ) 173005 .",
    "takamoto m. , katori h. , spectroscopy of the @xmath159s@xmath160-@xmath161p@xmath160 clock transition of @xmath1sr in an optical lattice , phys .",
    "91 ( 2003 ) 223001 .",
    "stenger j. et al . , phase - coherent frequency measurement of the ca intercombination line at 657  nm with a kerr - lens mode - locked femtosecond laser , phys . rev .",
    "a 63 ( 2001 ) 021802 .",
    "courtillot i. et al .",
    ", clock transition for a future optical frequency standard with trapped atoms , phys .",
    "a 68 ( 2003 ) 030501 .",
    "kuwamoto t. , honda k. , takahashi y. , yabuzaki t. , magneto - optical trapping of yb atoms using an intercombination transition , phys .",
    "a 60 ( 1999 ) r745 .",
    "park c.y . , yoon t. h. , efficient magneto - optical trapping of yb atoms with a violet laser diode , phys . rev",
    ". a 68 ( 2003 ) 055401 .",
    "porsev s.g . ,",
    "derevianko a. , fortson e.n . ,",
    "possibility of an optical clock using the 6  @xmath159s@xmath160 - 6  @xmath161p@xmath160 transition in @xmath162yb atoms held in an optical lattice , phys .",
    "rev . a 69 ( 2004 ) 021403 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this paper describes advances in microwave frequency standards using laser - cooled atoms at bnm - syrte . </S>",
    "<S> first , recent improvements of the @xmath0cs and @xmath1rb atomic fountains are described . </S>",
    "<S> thanks to the routine use of a cryogenic sapphire oscillator as an ultra - stable local frequency reference , a fountain frequency instability of @xmath2 where @xmath3 is the measurement time in seconds is measured . </S>",
    "<S> the second advance is a powerful method to control the frequency shift due to cold collisions . </S>",
    "<S> these two advances lead to a frequency stability of @xmath4 at @xmath5  s for the first time for primary standards . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , these clocks realize the si second with an accuracy of @xmath6 , one order of magnitude below that of uncooled devices . in a second part </S>",
    "<S> , we describe tests of possible variations of fundamental constants using @xmath1rb and @xmath0cs fountains . </S>",
    "<S> finally we give an update on the cold atom space clock pharao developed in collaboration with cnes . </S>",
    "<S> this clock is one of the main instruments of the aces / esa mission which is scheduled to fly on board the international space station in 2008 , enabling a new generation of relativity tests . </S>"
  ]
}