{
  "article_text": [
    "network structures which connect interacting particles such as proteins have long been recognised to be linked to the underlying dynamic or evolutionary processes@xcite . in particular the technological advances seen in molecular biology and genetics",
    "increasingly provide us with vast amounts of data about genomic , proteomic and metabolomic network structures @xcite . understanding the way in which the different constituents of such networks ,  genes and their protein products in the case of genome regulatory networks , enzymes and metabolites in the case of metabolic networks ( mn ) , and proteins in the case of protein interaction networks ( pin )",
    " interact can yield important insights into basic biological mechanisms @xcite .",
    "for example the extent of phenotypic plasticity allowed for by a network , or levels of similarity between pins in different organisms presumably depend on topological ( in a loose sense of the word ) properties of networks .",
    "our analysis here focuses on the degree distribution of a network , _",
    "i.e. _ the probability of a node to have @xmath0 connections to other nodes in the network .",
    "while it is well known that this does not offer an exhaustive description of network data , it has nevertheless remained an important characteristic / summary statistic of network data .",
    "here we use @xmath1 to denote a theoretical model for the degree distribution , or @xmath2 if the model depends on an ( unknown ) parameter @xmath3 ( potentially vector - valued ) , and @xmath4 to denote the empirical degree distribution",
    ".    many studies of biological network data have suggested that the underlying networks show scale - free behaviour @xcite and that their degree distributions follow a power - law , _",
    "i.e. _ @xmath5 where @xmath6 is riemann s zeta - functions which is defined for @xmath7 and diverges as @xmath8 ; for finite networks , however , it is not necessary that the value of @xmath9 is restricted to values greater than 1 .",
    "these powerlaws are in marked contrast to the degree distribution of the erds - rnyi random graphs @xcite which is poisson , @xmath10 .",
    "the study of random graphs is a rich field of research and many important properties can be evaluated analytically .",
    "such poisson random networks ( prn ) are characterized by most nodes having comparable degree ; the vast majority of nodes will have a connectivity close to the average connectivity .",
    "the term `` scale - free '' means that the ratio @xmath11 depends on @xmath12 alone but not on the connectivity @xmath0 .",
    "the attraction of scale - free models stem from the fact that some simple and intuitive statistical models of network evolution cause powerlaw degree distribution .",
    "scale - free networks are not , however , the only type of network that produces fat - tailed degree distributions .    here we will be concerned with developing a statistically sound approach for inferring the functional form for the degree distribution of a real network .",
    "we will show that relatively basic statistical concepts , like maximum likelihood estimation and model selection can be straightforwardly applied to pin and mn data . in particular we will demonstrate how we can determine which probability models best describe the degree distribution of a network .",
    "we then apply this approach in the analysis of real pin data from five model organisms and mn data . in each case",
    "we can show that the explanatory power of a standard scale - free network is vastly inferior compared to models that take the finite size of the system into account .",
    "here we are only concerned with methods aimed at studying the degree distribution of a network . in particular we want to quantify the extent to which a given functional form can describe the degree distribution of a real network . given a probability model ( _ e.g. _ power - law distribution or poisson distribution ) we want to determine the parameters which describe the degree distribution best ; after that we want to be able to distinguish which model from a set of trial model provides the best description . here",
    "we briefly introduce the basic statistical concepts employed later .",
    "these can be found in much greater detail in most modern statistics texts such as @xcite .",
    "tools for the analysis of other aspects of network data , _",
    "e.g. _ cluster coefficients , path length or spectral properties of the adjacency matrix will also need to be developed in order to understand topological and functional properties of networks .",
    "there is a well established statistical literature that allows us to assess to what extent data ( _ e.g. _ the degree distribution of a network ) is described by a specific probability model ( _ e.g. _ poisson , exponential or powerlaw distributions ) . thus far",
    ", determining the best model appears to have been done largely by eye @xcite and it is interesting to apply a more rigorous approach , although in some published cases maximum likelihood estimates were used to determine the value of @xmath9 for the scale - free distribution .      [ cols=\"<,^,<,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ metabtab ]    from figure [ metabfig ] and table [ metabtab ] it is apparent that the maximum likelihood scale - free model obtained from the whole network data does not provide an adequate description of the mn data .",
    "this should , however , not be too surprising as the network is only relatively small with maximum degree @xmath13 .",
    "the degree distribution appears to decay in an essentially exponential fashion but the stretched exponential has the required extra flexibility to describe the whole of the data better than the other models .",
    "measured by goodness of fit statistics @xmath14 and @xmath15 , however , the log - normal model ( @xmath16 and @xmath17 ) performs rather better than the stretched exponential ( @xmath18 and @xmath19 ) ; the scale - free model again performs very badly ( @xmath20 and @xmath21 ) for the metabolic network data .",
    "we have shown that it is possible to use standard statistical methods in order to determine which probability model describes the degree distribution best .",
    "we find that the common practice of fitting a pure power - law to such experimental network data@xcite may obscure information contained in the degree distribution of biological networks .",
    "this is often done by identifying a range of connectivities from the log - log plots of the degree distribution which can then be fitted by a straight line . not only is this wasteful in the sense that not all of the data is used but it may obfuscate real , especially finite - size , trends .",
    "the same will very likely hold true for other biological networks , too @xcite .",
    "the approach used here , on the other hand , ( i ) uses all the data , and ( ii ) can be extended to assessing levels of confidence through combining a bootstrap procedure with the akaike weights .",
    "what we have shown here , in summary , is that statistical methods can be usefully applied to protein interaction and metabolic network data .",
    "even though the degree distribution does not capture all ( or even most ) of the characteristics of real biological networks there is reason to reevaluate previous studies .",
    "we find that formally real biological networks provide very little support for the common notion that biological networks are scale - free .",
    "other fat - tailed probability distributions provide qualitatively and quantitatively better descriptions of the degree distributions of biological networks . for protein interaction networks we found that the log - normal and the stretched exponential offer superior descriptions of the degree distribution than the powerlaw or its finite size versions . for metabolic versions",
    "our results confirms this .",
    "even the exponential model outperformed the scale - free model in describing the empirical degree distribution ( we note that randomly growing networks are characterized by an exponentially decreasing degree distribution ) .",
    "the best models are all fat - tailed like the scale - free models but are not formally scale - free .",
    "unfortunately , there is as yet no known physical model for network growth processes that would give rise to log - normal or stretched exponential degree distributions .",
    "there is thus a need to develop and study theoretical models of network growth that are better able to describe the structure of existing networks .",
    "this probably needs to be done in light of at least three constraints : ( i ) real networks are finite sized and thus , in the terms of statistical physics , mesoscopic systems ; ( ii ) present network data are really only samples from much larger networks as not all proteins are included in present experimental setup ( in our case _",
    "s.cerevisiae _ has the highest fraction , 4773 out of approximately 5500 - 6000 proteins ) ; the sampling properties have recently been studied and it was found that generally the degree distribution of a subnet will differ from that of the whole network .",
    "this is particularly true for scale - free networks .",
    "( iii ) biological networks are under a number of functional and evolutionary constraints and proteins are more likely to interact with proteins in the same cellular compartment or those involved in the same biological process .",
    "this modularity and the information already availabe _",
    "e.g. _ in gene ontologies needs to be considered .",
    "finally there is an additional caveat : biological networks are not static but likely to change during development .",
    "more dynamic structures may be required to deal with this type of problem .",
    "quite generally we believe that we are now at a stage where simple models do not necessarily describe the data collected from complex processes to the extent that we would like them to . but as burda , diaz - correia and krzywicki point out @xcite , even if a mechanistic model is not correct in detail , a corresponding statistical ensemble may nevertheless offer important insights .",
    "we believe that the statistical models employed here will also be useful in helping to identify more realistic ensembles .",
    "* acknowledgements : * we thank the wellcome trust for a research fellowship ( mphs ) and a research studentship ( pji ) .",
    "cw is supported by the danish cancer society .",
    "financial support from the royal society and the carlsberg foundation ( to mphs and cw ) is also gratefully acknowledged .",
    "we have furthermore benefitted from discussions with eric de silva , bob may and mike sternberg .",
    "i.  agrafioti , j.  swire , j.  abbott , d.  huntley , s.  butcher and m.p.h .",
    "comparative analysis of the _ saccharomyces cerevisiae _ and _ caenorhabditis elegans protein _ interaction networks .",
    ", 5:23 , 2005 .",
    "t.  ito , k.  tashiro , s.  muta , r.  ozawa , t.  chiba , m.  nishizawa , k.  yamamoto , s.  kuhara , and y.  sakaki . towards a protein - protein interaction map of the budding yeast : a comprehensive system to examine two - hybrid interactions in all possible combinations between the yeast proteins .",
    ", 97:1143 , 2000 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> many biological networks have been labelled scale - free as their degree distribution can be approximately described by a powerlaw distribution . </S>",
    "<S> while the degree distribution does not summarize all aspects of a network it has often been suggested that its functional form contains important clues as to underlying evolutionary processes that have shaped the network . generally determining the appropriate functional form for the degree distribution </S>",
    "<S> has been fitted in an ad - hoc fashion .    here </S>",
    "<S> we apply formal statistical model selection methods to determine which functional form best describes degree distributions of protein interaction and metabolic networks . </S>",
    "<S> we interpret the degree distribution as belonging to a class of probability models and determine which of these models provides the best description for the empirical data using maximum likelihood inference , composite likelihood methods , the akaike information criterion and goodness - of - fit tests . </S>",
    "<S> the whole data is used in order to determine the parameter that best explains the data under a given model ( _ e.g. _ scale - free or random graph ) . as we will show </S>",
    "<S> , present protein interaction and metabolic network data from different organisms suggests that simple scale - free models do not provide an adequate description of real network data . </S>"
  ]
}