{
  "article_text": [
    "1.0 cm anfinsen s principle states that the folded state of an isolated protein corresponds to the _ global _ minimum of the system free energy at physiological temperature @xcite .",
    "the anfinsen s view is supported by the experimentally observed reversibility of the folding process for a large class of proteins .",
    "it appears so well - established that it provides the conceptual starting point of most theoretical studies and _ ab initio _ computational simulations of protein folding @xcite .",
    "indeed , computational approaches based on molecular dynamics or stochastic sampling rely on the notion that , independently of the starting unfolded conformation , the interplay of amino acid interactions is sufficient to drive a protein to the global free energy minimum .",
    "the validity of the anfinsen s principle appears surprising considering that the native structure of a protein is the result of a complicated mechanism which starts with the ribosomal translation , may involve the action of molecular chaperons and may end in post - translational modifications .",
    "the experimental investigation of the biosynthesis of specific proteins has led to the formulation of the cotranslational hypothesis@xcite . according to it , proteins which fold _ in vivo _",
    "acquire their spatial structure in the course of translation through specific kinetic routes in which the already grown peptide influences the folding of the rest of the chain .",
    "it should be remarked that cotranslational folding is not necessarily in contradiction with anfinsen s principle .",
    "indeed , virtually all the experimental and theoretical investigation of cotranslational folding state explicitly that the same final ( native ) conformations are achieved as a result of the biosynthesis or of the refolding from the denatures state . despite this observation ,",
    "several putative native structural signatures of the progressive build - up of nascent proteins have been put forward over the years , ranging from the absence of knots in folded proteins , to the atypical proximity of the two termini .",
    "some of these signatures have later been shown to be void of statistical significance @xcite . to the present day ,",
    "a feature that is still invoked in favour of the progressive quenching of nascent proteins into their native structure is the different structural organisation of the two termini .",
    "since the n - terminal region is the first to exit from the ribosomal tunnel , it is expected to be more locally organized and compact than the c - terminal region which should grow over the pre - formed protein scaffold @xcite .",
    "this stimulating suggestion followed the observation that the conformation of n - terminal regions appeared to be easier to predict than the c- counterparts @xcite .",
    "more recently , alexandrov analyzed a collection of protein conformations with the aim of detecting signatures of vectorial growth @xcite .",
    "the study concluded that in about two thirds of the analyzed proteins the majority of residues formed more contacts with amino acids that preceded rather than followed them in the primary sequence .",
    "this was interpreted as a clear signature of the progressive structural build - up propagating from the n terminus . according to ref .",
    "@xcite this asymmetry would imply that , typically , the n - terminal part of the protein is more compact than the c - terminal one , since `` previous '' contacts in the n - terminal region are , by necessity , local .",
    "the latter suggestion was , however , not supported by the comparison of the termini in terms of common and intuitive measures of compactness .",
    "in this study we re - examine these issues and several others related to the structural inequality of the n and c termini .",
    "we find that , according to several definitions of compactness , it is the c terminus that is more compact than the n one , in contradiction with the result of ref .",
    "the different bias in compactness is shown to originate from a larger propensity of the c terminus to attain helical conformations .",
    "to clarify whether the observed inequality is compatible with the thermodynamic hypothesis we elucidate its relationship with the difference in amino acidic composition and sequence of the two termini .",
    "the observed structural bias appears to be encoded in the primary sequences , in agreement with anfinsen s principle .",
    "the structures on which the analysis is performed were obtained starting from the pdbselect list of about 2000 non - homologous proteins in the protein data bank @xcite . as customary @xcite , of these structures we retained only those comprising at least 80 amino acids , without incomplete or ambiguous structural information , and not containing signal peptides .",
    "the identification of putative signal peptides ( for either prokaryotes or eukaryotes ) was carried out using the approach of ref.@xcite based on two different types of neural networks .",
    "proteins that had a probability greater than 50% to contain signal peptides according to both methods were removed from the set .",
    "the selection procedure resulted in the 373 monomeric proteins and 85 multi domain proteins listed in table [ table : proteins ] .",
    "the results discussed in the following sections are obtained through a statistical analysis performed on the monomeric proteins only , but are practically unchanged if the multi domain proteins are included in the data set .",
    "each protein was analyzed to detect structural biases at the two termini and to trace their possible origin back to the primary sequence .",
    "several structural measures were used to characterise the average properties of terminal segments of increasing lengths at the n and c ends .",
    "part of the analysis is carried out in terms of the contact matrix , @xmath0 .",
    "for each protein , the contact matrix element , @xmath1 reflects the spatial proximity of the @xmath2th and @xmath3th residues in the protein . denoting with @xmath4 the distance of the corresponding c@xmath5 atoms ( taken as interaction centroids for the whole residues ) in the native structures , the strength of the contact interaction is calculated from the sigmoidal weight : @xmath6/2 $ ] .",
    "as customary , the cutoff interaction , @xmath7 , was set to 7.5  .    the contact matrix is used to detect the possible preferential directions along the primary sequence of the contacts between amino acids . in the same spirit of alexandrov",
    "we computed the average fraction of previous contacts for each residues , @xmath8 . in terms of the contact matrix , @xmath8 is defined as @xmath9 ( note that nearest neighbors are included in the sum ) .",
    "the previous / forward character of each residues is then assigned according to whether @xmath8 is greater or smaller than 0.5 .",
    "it is important to notice that the asymmetry of the previous / forward character both at the level of site and of the whole protein is not in contradiction with the symmetry of the contact matrix , @xmath0 .",
    "we also considered the average number of contacts , @xmath10 , that amino acids at a given sequence distance , @xmath11 , from the nearest terminus make with residues that are closer , along the primary sequence , to the same terminus .",
    "the definition of @xmath10 for the n - terminus is @xmath12 while for the c - terminus case is @xmath13 . in these formulae",
    ", @xmath14 is the length of the protein under consideration and the brackets denote the average over the proteins in the data set ; also consecutive residues are excluded from the summation . since the data set is built from a non - redundant set of @xmath15 proteins ( @xmath15 = 373 and 85 respectively for the monomeric and multimeric ones ) the statistical uncertainty on @xmath10 is calculated as @xmath16 where @xmath17 is the second moment of the number of contacts at distance @xmath11 from the n ( or c ) terminus .",
    "the statistical significance of the difference in the value of @xmath10 observed at the n and c termini is finally calculated using the students t - test .    as further measures of compactness of the termini we also considered the radius of gyration , @xmath18 of the segments stretching up to the @xmath11th residue from the n or c termini as well as the fraction of local contacts . to correlate the observed structural inequality at the two termini with biases in the primary sequence we also considered a number of sequence - based observables as a function of the distance @xmath11 from the nearest terminus .",
    "in particular we considered    * the average hydrophobicity according to the kyte - doolittle scale : ala=1.8 ; cys=2.5 ; leu=3.8 ; met=1.9 ; glu=-3.5 ; gln=-3.5 ; his=-3.2 ; lys=-3.9 ; val=4.2 ; ile=4.5 ; phe=2.8 ; tyr=-1.3 ; trp=-0.9 ; thr=-0.7 ; gly=-0.4 ; ser=-0.8 ; asp=-3.5 ; asn=-3.5 ; pro=-1.6 ; arg=-4.5 . * the average steric hindrance defined as the total number of heavy atoms ( not hydrogens ) in the side chain of an amino acid . * the average helical content assigned according to the dssp algorithm .",
    "the helical character of a residue is set equal to 1 if it is classified as h ( alpha helix ) g ( 3/10 helix ) or i ( pi helix ) , and 0 otherwise .    besides these observables we have also considered the helical propensities predicted by the gor - iv algorithm described in ref .",
    "@xcite . in this method",
    "the probability of an amino acid to belong to an alpha helix is estimated from its primary - sequence neighborhood , through a set of coefficients expressing the conditional probability that a given pair of amino acids at a fixed sequence separation belongs to a secondary structure motif .",
    "these coefficients are learned on the set of 373 selected proteins from which we removed all the residues at a sequence separation smaller than 30 from each of the two termini . by doing",
    "so we ensure the statistical reliability of the gor - iv results for the proteins termini , since none of the structural motifs to be predicted is included in the training set .",
    "the original source code of the gor iv program was compiled setting the nterm and cterm parameters equal to zero , so to allow secondary structure predictions also for residues very close to the terminus ( otherwise set to `` coil '' by default ) .",
    "suitable normalisation factors of the knowledge - based weights were also introduced to account for the fact that the averaging window can span less than the default number of 17 residues if the site is at a sequence distance smaller than 9 from either termini .",
    "in ref . @xcite it is suggested that amino acids have a higher propensity to form contacts with residues that are closer to the n terminus .",
    "this was interpreted as a signature of the progressive structural buildup propagating from the n terminus .     and",
    "@xmath19 , at sequence separation 6 from the n and c - termini ( highlighted in red ) .",
    "the spheres denote the region of space within an interaction cutoff distance of 7.5   from the two reference residues .",
    "amino acids within this cutoff distance and with a smaller [ longer ] sequence separation than the reference residue from the nearest terminus are highlighted in blue [ green ] .",
    "( b ) : color - coded profile for the fraction of `` previous '' contacts , @xmath8 , for each site of 1ttg .",
    "accordingly , for the reference sites of the top panel , we have @xmath20 and @xmath21.,width=307 ]    the previous / forward bias originally observed by alexandrov @xcite is confirmed by the analysis of our data set , though with notable changes in perspective and conclusions . in order to quantitatively characterise the bias , we here compute the average fraction of previous contacts for each residue , @xmath8 , see fig . [",
    "fig : prevforw]b .",
    "it is found that @xmath22 is rather independent on the length of the proteins in the data set and is practically unaffected by the omission of residues at the protein s termini . in terms of the sequence separation , the autocorrelation length in the values of @xmath8 is about 4 .",
    "the average value of @xmath22 in our set is @xmath23 where the statistical error on the mean was calculated from the dispersion of the sample and accounting for the sequence - separation correlation .",
    "if one assigns the previous [ forward ] identity to individual amino acids based on the fact that @xmath8 is greater [ smaller ] than 0.5 , one finds that , of the nearly 40,000 residues , 50.6 % of them are of type previous .",
    "the asymmetry in the directional preference of contact formation therefore appears to be minimal .",
    "this tiny asymmetry is amplified by the procedure of ref .",
    "@xcite where a hierarchy of majority rules was used to assign a previous / forward character first to residues and then to proteins .",
    "in fact , the site - wise assignment of the previous / forward character can be used to define the character of `` blocks '' of consecutive residues according to the majority rule .",
    "one therefore finds that , for ( non - overlapping ) blocks of size 5 , 11 and 17 residues , the fraction of previous - type blocks is 51.6 , 52.3 and 54.1% , respectively .",
    "it is therefore clear that the majority rule amplifies the slight site - wise asymmetry in a manner that is dependent on the block - size .",
    "consequently , the heterogeneity of proteins lengths in a data set make problematic the proper notion of the average previous / forward character of proteins . even in this case , however , the procedure ref .",
    "@xcite applied to our data set yields a fraction of proteins of type `` previous '' equal to 59% , a number substantially lower than the 75% observed in ref  @xcite . in summary , the previous / forward asymmetry , though statistically well - founded , appears to be much smaller than originally stated .",
    "this bias , previously regarded as a signal of the n - terminal initiation and propagation of the folding process , may possibly reflects the genuine chemical inequality of peptide chains under inversion of the primary sequence @xcite .",
    "another possible signature of the progressive build - up of the proteins is that , since the n - terminal region is the first to exit from the ribosome , it is expected to be organized differently than the c - terminal region which should grow over the pre - formed protein scaffold @xcite . to elucidate this",
    ", we carried out a detailed analysis of structural differences between proteins termini .     of the residue from the nearest terminus .",
    "averages are taken over the 373 structures listed in table i. the error bars are the standard deviation on the average .",
    "the thick lines correspond to regions where the statistical significance ( students t - test ) of the n - c pointwise difference is larger than 99 % .",
    "( a ) : average number of contacts that amino acids at a given sequence distance from the nearest terminal make with residues that are closer to the same terminal .",
    "( b ) : average difference ( in  ) between the gyration radius of segments of increasing length at the n and c termini .",
    "( c ) : fraction of non - local contacts , i.e. interactions with residues at a sequence separation larger than 6.,width=307 ]    we first consider the average number of contacts , @xmath10 , that amino acids at a given sequence distance , @xmath11 , from the nearest terminus make with residues that are closer , along the primary sequence , to the same terminus .",
    "the widespread notion that the n - terminus is more compact than the c one@xcite , and the tiny previous / forward bias we observed , would imply that @xmath10 should be higher for the n region . as visible in fig .",
    "[ fig : fig2]a , however , the observed bias contradicts this expectation . in a region that extends up to 10 residues away from the termini it is the c region that appears to be richer in internal contacts by an amount that has a high statistical significance .",
    "the difference is still larger than the error bar at a distance of 20 from the termini .",
    "the conclusions are robust against changes of the interaction cutoff , @xmath7 , in the viable range of 68  and upon the use of a step function instead of a sigmoidal one for weighting the interactions .",
    "it is important to remark that @xmath10 reflects a propensity to form contacts _ within _ the terminal regions , i.e. disregarding interactions with residues with sequence distance greater than @xmath11 from the reference terminus .",
    "in fact , if one considers the contacts made with any residue irrespective of the sequence separation from the terminus , then no statistical difference between the two termini emerge .    to clarify the structural basis for the bias shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : fig2]a we monitored the average gyration radius of the terminal regions .",
    "this quantity is a direct measure of the difference in compactness .",
    "the results , shown in fig .  [ fig : fig2]b , demonstrate that the c - terminal region has a smaller average radius .",
    "for instance , the average gyration radius of the first and the last 15 amino acids of a protein are 9.1 and 8.7 respectively .",
    "the difference has a statistical relevance higher than 99% up to @xmath24 .",
    "finally , we analyzed the average propensity of the amino acids to form non - local contacts , i.e. contacts with residues at a sequence separation larger than 6 @xcite .",
    "also in this case there is a statistically - significant difference revealing a greater propensity of the c - terminal region to form local contacts than the n - terminal counterpart , as visible in fig .",
    "[ fig : fig2]c .",
    "these results unambiguously show that , on average , the c - terminus is more compact than the n - one .    , of the residue from the nearest terminus .",
    "line colors , thickness and error bars follow the same convention of figure [ fig : fig2 ] .",
    "( a ) : average hydrophobicity according to the kyte - doolittle scale ( b ) : average steric hindrance , ( c ) : average structural helical content identified with the dssp algorithm .",
    "( d ) : average helical propensity as predicted by the gor - iv algorithm.,width=307 ]    since a low contact order in proteins is an indicator of high helical content@xcite we have analyzed the secondary content in the proteins terminal regions by means of the dssp algorithm@xcite .",
    "the results , shown in fig .  [ fig : fig3]c , highlight the higher probability of the c - terminal region to attain helical conformations , up to at least @xmath25 , consistently with other structural studies @xcite . as apparent in fig .",
    "[ fig : fig3]c , the helical content has a maximum at separation @xmath26 for the c terminus and at separation @xmath27 for the n one . as a result , for @xmath28 , it is instead more common to observe helices in the n - terminal regions .",
    "this secondary - structure bias is responsible not only for the observed difference of contact order but also for the higher number of contacts formed within the c - terminal region rather than the n one : since the average overall number of total contacts is the same in the two regions , a higher helical content implies a higher number of local contacts .",
    "the observed differences between the two termini are highly statistically significant , and their relationship to vectorial growth must be addressed , since the presence of structural biases could be an evidence in favor of conformational trapping resulting from an out - of - equilibrium build up @xcite . however , an average difference in the structure of the termini is not necessarily in contradiction with anfinsen s hypothesis .",
    "in fact , the structural bias may reflect a systematic difference in the primary sequence at the termini .",
    "such differences in sequence composition have already been reported in the literature @xcite but have been found to be statistically significant only for residues very close to the termini , and it would be surprising if these small differences would result in the bias we observed .    in order to quantitatively address this issue",
    ", we considered several sequence - related properties , looking for an average difference between the n and the c regions .",
    "remarkably , the two termini could not be distinguished by any _ point - wise _",
    "( i.e. single - amino acid ) property we considered .",
    "an example is provided in fig .",
    "[ fig : fig3]a , where we plot the average hydrophobicity as a function of the distance from the termini : no statistically significant difference is observed between the two regions .",
    "we also considered the average helical propensity , estimated through the knowledge - based chou - fasman@xcite parameters , and the average steric hindrance , defined as the number of side chain heavy atoms ( fig .",
    "[ fig : fig3]b ) . also for these indicators we did not observe any statistically significant difference of the two termini .",
    "we have also tested if the two termini are distinguished by the effective pairwise interactions @xcite among amino acids .",
    "considering residues up to a given separation from the each terminus we have calculated the energy resulting from the interaction of all pairs of residues in the segment . by doing",
    "so we ascertain if , within the limitations of the energy scoring function , the two termini have different average propensities for self - interaction , and hence compactness or locality .",
    "also in this case no statistically - significant difference was found .",
    "these results do not necessarily imply that the termini structural inequality is not encoded by the primary sequence , since it may only reflect the limitations of point - wise and mean - field indicators . to improve the analysis we resorted to the powerful gor - iv scheme @xcite for predicting proteins secondary structure from the mere knowledge of their sequence .",
    "the information theory approach of ref .",
    "@xcite was chosen because it has a good prediction performance and yet does not rely on structural alignment , which could bias the prediction at the termini .",
    "the results are summarized in fig .",
    "[ fig : fig3]d and reveal that the gor - iv approach is able to predict the correct bias on the termini helical propensity , at least in the @xmath29 region .",
    "the same conclusions hold using a jackknife scheme were the prediction on each protein is done with the parameters learnt on all other proteins in the set . the n- and c - terminal difference in the average helical content predicted by the gor iv algorithm is of the same order of the structurally - observed one . while the average behaviour is thus captured , on individual proteins the typical fraction of residues in helical conformations that are correctly - predicted is about @xmath30 0.65 , while the fraction of non - helical residues that are mistakenly predicted as helical is @xmath310.17 .",
    "these number may be taken as indicators of the average reliability of the predictions . over our finite sample",
    "we saw that @xmath32 and @xmath33 are equal to 0.62 and 0.16 respectively over residues at distance 517 from the n - terminus and 0.66 and 0.22 for the c - terminal ones .",
    "though these fluctuations may simply reflect the finiteness of the sample , it is instructive to consider them as genuine differences in the performance of the gor iv scheme at the termini . even in this case the putative difference in performance would be responsible for less than half the difference in predicted helical propensity . according to the students t - test",
    ", the remaining pointwise difference would have a probability of less than 7% to be generated by chance .",
    "we observe that the region of high statistical significance in fig .",
    "[ fig : fig3]d , spans many more residues that those over which gor predictions appear to be correlated ( 4.5 residues ) .",
    "this shows that the difference in helical content and , therefore , the difference in compactness between the termini , is indeed encoded in the primary sequence , though it can not be picked up by intuitive point - wise indicators @xcite .",
    "in order to elucidate the possible role of out - of - equilibrium effects in determining the native structures of proteins , we analyzed the structural differences between the two termini .",
    "we have found that the c terminus has a higher helical content ( fig .",
    "[ fig : fig3]a ) , a smaller gyration radius ( fig .",
    "[ fig : fig2]b ) , and contains a larger number of local contacts ( fig .  [ fig : fig2]a and fig .",
    "[ fig : fig2]c ) than the n terminus .",
    "these results contradict previous observations that , based on the intuitive image of a progressive protein build up , argued for the higher compactness of the n terminus .",
    "the use of a sequence - based secondary structure prediction method revealed that the observed structural asymmetry of the termini is encoded in subtle difference of the primary sequence at the protein ends .",
    "this is consistent with the anfinsen s hypothesis while it rules out the necessity to invoke out - of - equilibrium effects to account for the terminal structural inequality . of course",
    ", the possibility that naturally - selected proteins have evolved so to exploit kinetic biases to reach the global free energy minimum can not be ruled out , as already envisaged by levinthal @xcite .",
    "the results presented here pose the question of the biophysical rationale behind the sequence and structural inequality of the two termini .",
    "though this issue is beyond the scope of the present analysis , it is tempting to speculate that the presence of this average terminal difference across a large set of unrelated proteins may be the result of evolutionary pressure , e.g. for folding cooperativity @xcite .    * acknowledgments * we are indebted to s. alberti for stimulating discussions on nascent proteins and to j .- f .",
    "gibrat for providing us the gor - iv program .",
    "we are also thankful to r. bulo , h - s .",
    "chan , g. colombo , f. gervasio , e. lattmann m. parrinello and s. raugei , for several useful comments and discussions .",
    "bernstein , f.  c. , koetzle , t.  f. , williams , g.  j. , meyer , e.  e. , brice , m.  d. , rodgers , j.  r. , kennard , o. , shimanouchi , t. , and tasumi , m. the protein data bank : a computer - based archival file for macromolecular structures .",
    "biol . 112:535542 , 1977 .",
    "kolinsky , a. , godzik , a. , and skolnick , j. a general method for the prediction of the three dimensional structure and folding pathway of globular proteins : application to designed helical proteins .",
    "phys . 98:74207433 , 1993 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> experimental investigations of the biosynthesis of a number of proteins have pointed out that part of the native structure can be acquired already during translation . </S>",
    "<S> we carried out a comprehensive statistical analysis of some average structural properties of proteins that have been put forward as possible signatures of this progressive buildup process . </S>",
    "<S> contrary to a widespread belief , it is found that there is no major propensity of the amino acids to form contacts with residues that are closer to the n terminus . </S>",
    "<S> moreover , it is found that the c terminus is significantly more compact and locally - organized than the n one . </S>",
    "<S> also this bias , though , is unlikely to be related to vectorial effects , since it correlates with subtle differences in the primary sequence . </S>",
    "<S> these findings indicate that even if proteins aquire their structure vectorially no signature of this seems to be detectable in their average structural properties . </S>"
  ]
}