{
  "article_text": [
    "information processing in the brain is mediated by the dynamics of large , highly interconnected neuronal populations .",
    "the activity patterns exhibited by the brain are extremely rich ; they include stochastic weakly correlated local firing , synchronized oscillations and bursts , as well as propagating waves of activity .",
    "perception , emotion etc .",
    "are supposed to be emergent properties of such a complex nonlinear neural circuit .    instead of considering one of the conventional neural architectures @xcite , an alternative neural architecture",
    "is proposed here for neural computing .",
    "indeed , there are certain aspects of brain functions that still appear to have no satisfactory explanation . as an alternative ,",
    "researchers @xcite are investigating whether the brain can demonstrate quantum mechanical behavior . according to current research , microtubules , the basic components of neural cytoskeleton ,",
    "are very likely to possess quantum mechanical properties due to their size and structure .",
    "the tubulin protein , which is the structural block of microtubules , has the ability to flip from one conformation to another as a result of a shift in the electron density localization from one resonace orbital to another .",
    "these two conformations act as two basis states of the system according to whether the electrons inside the tubuline hydrophobic pocket are localized closer to @xmath0 or @xmath1 tubulin .",
    "moreover the system can lie in a superposition of these two basis states , that is , being in both states simultaneously , which can give a plausible mechanism for creating a coherent state in the brain . to give credence to",
    "the possibility of existence of a quantum brain , penrose ( @xcite ) argued that the human brain must utilize quantum mechanical effects when demonstrating problem solving feats that can not be explained algorithmically .    in this paper , instead of going into biological details of the brain",
    ", we propose a theoretical quantum brain model .",
    "the model is referred to as recurrent quantum neural network ( rqnn ) .",
    "an earlier version @xcite of this model used a linear neural circuit to set up the potential field in which the quantum brain is dynamically excited .",
    "the present model uses a nonlinear neural circuit .",
    "this fundamental change in the architecture has yielded two novel features .",
    "the wave packets , @xmath2 , are moving like particles . here",
    "@xmath3 is the solution of the nonlinear schroedinger wave equation that describes the quantum brain model proposed in this paper to explain eye movements for tracking moving targets .",
    "the other very interesting observation is that the movements of the wave packets while tracking a fixed target are not continuous but discrete .",
    "these observations accord with the well - known saccadic movement of the eye @xcite . in a way ,",
    "our model is the first of its kind to explain the nature of eye movements in static scenes that consists of `` jumps '' ( saccades ) and `` rests '' ( fixations ) .",
    "we expect this result to inspire other researchers to further investigate the possible quantum dynamics of the brain .",
    "an impetus to hypothesize a quantum brain model comes from the brain s necessity to unify the neuronal response into a single percept . anatomical , neurophysiological and neuropsychological evidence , as well as brain imaging using fmri and pet scans , show that separate functional maps exist in the biological brain to code separate features such as direction of motion , location , color and orientation .",
    "how does the brain compute all this data to have a coherent perception ? in this paper , a very simple model of a quantum brain is proposed where a collective response of a neuronal lattice is modeled using a schroedinger wave equation as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : qb ] . in this figure",
    ", it is shown that an external stimulus reaches each neuron in a lattice with a probability amplitude function @xmath4 .",
    "such a hypothesis would suggest that the carrier of the stimulus performs quantum computation .",
    "the collective response of all the neurons is given by the superposition equation :    @xmath5    we suggest that the time evolution of the collective response @xmath6 is described by the schroedinger wave equation :    @xmath7    where @xmath8 is planck s constant , @xmath3 is the wave function ( probability amplitude ) associated with the quantum object at space - time point@xmath9 , and @xmath10 the mass of the quantum object .",
    "further symbols such as @xmath11 and @xmath12 carry their usual meaning in the context of the schroedinger wave equation .",
    "another way to look at our proposed quantum brain is as follows .",
    "a neuronal lattice sets up a spatial potential field @xmath13 .",
    "a quantum process described by a quantum state @xmath6 which mediates the collective response of a neuronal lattice evolves in the spatial potential field @xmath13 according to equation . thus the classical brain sets up a spatio - temporal potential field and the quantum brain is excited by this potential field to provide a collective response . in the next section , we present a possible eye - movement model for tracking moving target .",
    "( 12,6 ) ( 2.0,3.7)0.08 ( 4.5,4.0)0.15 ( 4.5,4.5)0.15 ( 4.5,5.0)0.15 ( 4.5,5.5)0.15 ( 4.5,2.0)0.15 ( 4.5,2.5)0.15    ( 4.5,3.0)@xmath14 ( 4.5,3.5)@xmath14    ( 2.0,3.7)(4.35,4.0 ) ( 2.0,3.7)(4.35,4.5 ) ( 2.0,3.7)(4.35,5.0 ) ( 2.0,3.7)(4.35,5.5 ) ( 2.0,3.7)(4.35,2.5 ) ( 2.0,3.7)(4.35,2.0 )    ( 5,5.6)@xmath15 ( 5,5.1)@xmath16 ( 5,2.0)@xmath17    ( 4.0,1.5)(5.5,1.5)(5.5,6)(4.0,6 ) ( 4.7,1)neural lattice ( 1.0,3.85)a single ( 1.0,3.35)stimulus    ( 6.0,3.4)(6.0,4.4)(11.5,4.4)(11.5,3.4 ) ( 8.7,4 )    [ cols= \" < , < , < \" , ]     to better appreciate the tracking performance , an error plot is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : error ] .",
    "although kalman filter tracking is continuous , the rqnn model tracking consists of jumps and fixations. as the alignment of the eye pupil becomes closer to the target position , the fixation time also increases .",
    "similar tracking behaviour was also observed for the snr values of 20 and 6 db .",
    "these theoretical results are very interesting when compared to experimental results in the field of eye - tracking . in eye - tracking experiments",
    ", it is known that eye movements in static scenes are not performed continuously , but consist of `` jumps '' ( saccades ) and `` rests '' ( fixations ) .",
    "eye - tracking results are represented as lists of fixation data .",
    "furthermore , if the information is simple or familiar , eye movement is comparatively smooth .",
    "if it is tricky or new , the eye might pause or even flip back and forth between images .",
    "similar results are given by our simulations .",
    "our model tracks the dc signal which can be thought of as equivalent to a static scene , in discrete steps rather than in a continuous fashion .",
    "this is very clearly understood from the tracking error in fig .",
    "[ fig : error ] .",
    "the other interesting aspect of the results is the movement of wave packets . in figure",
    "[ fig : dc_track3 ] ( _ bottom _ ) , snapshots of wave packets are plotted at different instances corresponding to marker points as shown along the desired trajectory .",
    "it can be noticed that a very flat initial gaussian wave packet first moves to the left , and then proceeds toward the right until the mean of the wave packet exactly matches the actual spatial position .",
    "a similar pattern of movement of wave packets was also noticed in the case of 20 and 6db snr . the wave packet movement is compared with our previous work @xcite in fig . [",
    "fig : ln_rqnn ] .",
    "the initial wave packet in the previous model first splits into two parts , then moves in a continuous fashion , ultimately going into a state with a mean of approximately 2 but with high variance .",
    "in contrast , in the present model there is no splitting of the wave packet , movement is discrete and variance is also much smaller .",
    "thus the soliton behavior of the present model is very much pronounced .    to analyze the eye movement following a moving target ,",
    "a sinusoidal signal @xmath18 is taken as the desired dynamic trajectory .",
    "this signal is embedded in 20 db gaussian noise .",
    "the parameter values for tracking this signal were fixed at @xmath19 and @xmath20 . it is observed that during the training phase , the wave packet jumps from time to time , thus changing the tracking error until a steady state trajectory following is achieved .",
    "this feature is clearly understood from the tracking error plot which is shown in fig . [ fig : error_sin ] . in this figure",
    ", it is shown that the wave packet has jumped six times before the first smooth movement started . again , this jump took place four times before the second smooth movement started and ultimately achieved a steady state .",
    "when the steady state is achieved , the tracking is efficient and the wave packet movement is continuous , as shown in fig . [",
    "fig : sin_track ] .",
    "the snapshots of the wave packets are plotted for three different instances of time indicated by the marker points ( 1,2,3 ) as shown in the trajectory tracking .",
    "when the signal is at position 1 , the corresponding wave packet has a mean at 0 .",
    "when the signal is at position 2 , the corresponding wave packet has a mean at + 2 , and the mean of the wave packet moves to -2 when the signal goes to position 3 .",
    "this type of continuous movement of wave packet takes place after a series of jumps of random nature . during continuous movement of the wave packets ,",
    "trajectory tracking is smooth , denoted as smooth pursuit movement   in the context of biological eye tracking .",
    "this theoretical result is very similar in nature as what has been observed experimentally @xcite .",
    "the nature of eye movement has been studied in this article using the proposed rqnn model , where the predictor and motor control are assumed to be ideal .",
    "the most important finding is that our theoretical model of eye - tracking agrees with previously observed experimental results .",
    "the model predicts that eye movements will be of saccadic type while following a static trajectory . in the case of dynamic trajectory following ,",
    "eye movement consists of saccades and smooth pursuits . in this sense ,",
    "the proposed quantum brain concept in this paper is very successful in explaining the nature of eye movements .",
    "earlier explanation @xcite for saccadic movement has been primarily attributed to motor control mechanism whereas the present model emphasizes that such eye movements are due to decision making process of the brain - albeit quantum brain .",
    "thus the significant contribution of this paper to explain biological eye - movement as a neural information processing event may inspire researchers to study quantum brain models from the biological perspective .",
    "the other significant contribution of this paper is the prediction efficiency of the proposed model over the prevailing model .",
    "the stochastic filtering of a dc signal using rqnn is 1000 times more accurate compared to a kalman filter .    at this point",
    "the paper is silent about exact biological connection between classical and quantum brain since it is not clear to us .",
    "the model just assumes that the quantum brain is excited by the potential field set up by the classical brain .",
    "another obvious question is that of decoherence . in this regard , we admit that the model proposed here is highly idealized since we have used schroedinger wave equation",
    ". we intend to replace schroedinger wave equation by density matrix approach in our future work .",
    "also , the phase transition analysis of closed form dynamics , given in equation with respect to various parameters @xmath21 and @xmath22 , has been kept for future work .",
    "finally , we believe that apart from the computational power derived from quantum computing , quantum learning systems will also provide a potent framework to study the subjective aspects of the nervous system @xcite .",
    "the challenge to bridge the gap between physical and mental ( or objective and subjective ) notions of matter may be most successfully met within the framework of quantum learning systems . in this framework , we have proposed a notion of a quantum brain , and a recurrent quantum neural network has been hypothesized as a first step towards a neural computing model ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a theoretical quantum brain model is proposed using a nonlinear schroedinger wave equation . </S>",
    "<S> the model proposes that there exists a quantum process that mediates the collective response of a neural lattice ( classical brain ) . </S>",
    "<S> the model is used to explain eye movements when tracking moving targets . using a recurrent quantum neural network(rqnn ) while simulating the quantum brain model , two very interesting phenomena are observed . </S>",
    "<S> first , as eye sensor data is processed in a classical brain , a wave packet is triggered in the quantum brain . this wave packet moves like a particle . </S>",
    "<S> second , when the eye tracks a fixed target , this wave packet moves not in a continuous but rather in a discrete mode . </S>",
    "<S> this result reminds one of the saccadic movements of the eye consisting of jumps and rests. however , such a saccadic movement is intertwined with smooth pursuit movements when the eye has to track a dynamic trajectory . in a sense </S>",
    "<S> , this is the first theoretical model explaining the experimental observation reported concerning eye movements in a static scene situation . </S>",
    "<S> the resulting prediction is found to be very precise and efficient in comparison to classical objective modeling schemes such as the kalman filter . </S>"
  ]
}