{
  "article_text": [
    "many functionally important proteins such as receptors ( g - protein coupled receptors ( milligan et al . 2003 ) , tyrosine kinase receptors ( ronnstrand 2004 ) ) , enzyme complexes ( marianayagam et al .",
    "2004 ) , ion channels ( simon and goodenough 1998 ) and transcriptional factors ( amoutzias et al .",
    "2004 ) are homo- or hetero - dimers . for example , almost 70% of enzymes listed in the brenda database ( http://www.brenda.uni-koeln.de/ ) can self - interact to form dimers or higher - order oligomers . as another example ,",
    "g - protein coupled receptors ( milligan et al . 2003 ) , chemokine ( mellado et al . 2001 ) , cytokine ( langer et al . 2004 ) , and tyrosine kinase receptor ( ronnstrand 2004 ) families all use oligomerization as a step in the pathway activation in response to an agonist ( marianayagam et al .",
    "the examples of multi - protein complexes containing homodimers include proteasome ( bochtler et al .",
    "1999 ) , ribosome ( matadeen et al .",
    "1999 ) , nucleosome ( bentley et al .",
    "the function of most filamentous proteins of the cytoskeleton such as actin , myosin , spectrin , tubulin , etc , relies on their oligomerization or polymerization .",
    "the ability to self - interact confers several structural and functional advantages to proteins , including improved stability ( hattori et al . 2003 , dunbar et al . 2004 ) control over the accessibility and specificity of active sites ( marianayagam et al .",
    "2004 ) , and increased structural complexity .",
    "in addition , self - association can help to minimize genome size , while maintaining the advantages of modular complex formation .",
    "protein assembly into heterodimers has the combinatorial effect of producing multiple species with different affinity to its substrates and other biophysical characteristics , giving the cell an instrument for fine - tuning its regulatory responses .",
    "even bigger variety of complexes contain ( or are formed by ) the interacting paralogs , such as spliceosome ( mura et al .",
    "2001 ) , acting promoting complex apr2/3 , membrane receptors ( rubin and yarden 2001 ) , and transcription factors ( amoutzias et al . 2004 ) .    while many specific dimerizing proteins are well studied and their biological and structural properties have been established , little is known about an overall topological influence and high - level statistical properties of dimer distribution in protein networks .",
    "the protein networks have recently become a subject of extensive research by biologists as well as by scientists from other fields interested in networks and graphs ( see , for example , ( spirin and mirny 2003 , amoutzias et al .",
    "2004 , wagner 2003 , maslov and sneppen 2002 , wuchty et al .",
    "2003 , kim et al .",
    "2002 ) . among various studied types of protein - protein networks ,",
    "a binding , or physical interaction networks have several appealing properties that make them a popular research subject : they are undirected , boolean , and the most extensive ones , in principle spanning over all proteins present in a given organism .",
    "several universal features of the binding networks are believed to be established fairly well .",
    "examples include an apparent broad ( scale - free ) degree distribution ( wagner 2003 and references therein ) , suppression interactions between high - degree ( hub ) proteins ( maslov and sneppen 2002 ) , a higher than randomly expected number of tightly linked sub - graphs or cliques ( spirin and mirny 2003 ) , and evolutionary conservation of such tightly linked sub - graphs ( wuchty et al .",
    "2003 ) . in this paper",
    "we describe a systematic empirical study of topological properties of the physical interaction network properties in the neighborhood of homodimers ( self - interacting proteins ) as well as heterodimers formed by paralogous proteins .",
    "we have assembled and analyzed the protein - protein interaction ( binding ) networks from four organisms : the baker s yeast _",
    "s. cerevisiae _ , the nematode worm _ c. elegans",
    "_ , the fruit fly , _",
    "d. melanogaster_,and the human _ h. sapiens _ ( see materials and methods for details ) .",
    ".[tab_1 ] estimated total number of proteins @xmath0 , number of proteins involved in the protein - protein interaction networks @xmath1 , the number of dimers or self - interacting proteins @xmath2 , the average network degree ( the number of neighbors ) @xmath3 over all @xmath1 , and the average degree @xmath4 of self - interacting proteins . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     given that most paralogous heterodimers were at some point formed from homodimers , one might assume that most proteins involved in such heterodimeric complexes are homodimers .",
    "however , it is far from being the case ( see table  iii ) .",
    "such discrepancy is caused by two reasons , one purely evolutionary while another anthropogenic .",
    "* as a result of substitutions in its amino - acid sequence any protein might loose its ability to interact with its paralog or to homodimerize . from fig .  2",
    "one can see that many ancient duplicates of homodimers have lost links to their ancestors .",
    "* the experimental data are far from being complete and many links , including self - interactions , are simply not registered .",
    "the comparison between sets of homodimers and interacting paralogs may in principle be used to crudely estimate the completeness of our knowledge of a protein network in a given organism .",
    "above we demonstrated that self - interacting proteins tend to have connectivity significantly above the average in the protein - protein interaction network .",
    "this phenomenon appears universally in protein - protein interaction networks of all four model organisms studied above . as a related phenomenon we found that interacting paralogs",
    "also have increased connectivity , likely because most of them are descendants of ancient self - interacting proteins .",
    "we also have shown that numbers of homodimers and interacting paralogs are both higher than expected by pure chance alone .",
    "we unify these phenomena by introducing a `` stickiness '' as a measure of protein propensity for binding .",
    "both the propensity of proteins towards self - interactions and the degree of a protein in the protein - protein interaction network are proportional to this parameter .",
    "however , the dimerization probability apparently has a larger proportionality coefficient .",
    "this is not very surprising given a multitude of functional roles dimers ( or polymers ) play in living cells . dimerizing and oligomerizing proteins are ubiquitous in all organisms and are present in the most evolutionary conserved protein complexes ( marianayagam et al .",
    "2004 ) .",
    "on the evolutionary side , we have confirmed that most links between paralogs are most probably inherited from their dimerizing ancestors .",
    "this does not exclude a possibility that some of these links are formed after duplication as a result of random mutations , but the relative number of such _ de novo _ created links is relatively small .",
    "this conclusion has several implications for the network topology .",
    "if a given dimerizing protein has duplicated several times , it leads to an appearance of a fully interconnected complex or clique of paralogous heterodimers . in reality ,",
    "some links inside this complex are lost due the divergence of sequences of paralogous proteins . such loss of links may split a higher - order clique into several lower - order ones or make it just a densely ( yet not fully ) interconnected motif . a higher density of links around dimers caused by these remaining heterodimeric links may provide a qualitative explanation to the empirically observed abundance of highly interconnected motifs and cliques in protein networks ( spirin and mirny 2003 ) .",
    "several simple models of network growth and evolution due to gene duplications followed by subsequent functional divergence of the resulting pair of paralogous proteins lead to networks with an unrealistic bipartite topology in which descendants of a particular protein never interact with their paralogs ( kim et al .",
    "introduction of a large number of heterodimers to the ancestral network in these models generates frequent links between paralogs which in the end gives rise to more realistic network topologies .    finally , we would like to speculate on a general role that the highly connected self - interacting proteins might play in the cell .",
    "a single protein molecule can simultaneously bind only a limited number of partners , at most equal to the number of its functional domains . on the other hand ,",
    "most biological processes require many different proteins in numbers far greater than the binding capacity of a single protein molecule .",
    "the protein components of large signaling or biochemical pathways do not form large stable complexes containing all proteins simultaneously . yet",
    "all the necessary molecules must be in a physical proximity to each other to form a functional module .",
    "this contradiction poses a question : how so many different proteins could co - localize in a cell to correctly perform a physiological function ?",
    "a possible solution to this question involves highly connected self - interacting proteins serving as self - organizing centers for co - localization of the pathway components .",
    "the self - interaction ( oligomerization ) of such proteins might function as a general mechanism for sensing protein concentration ( marianayagam et al .",
    "2004 ) indeed , a random increase of a local concentration of monomers leads to their oligomerization and subsequently to the increase in the concentration of binding sites for other pathway components , increasing in turn their effective concentration .",
    "the protein interaction data for all four species were obtained from the biological association network databases available from ariadne genomics ( http://www.ariadnegenomics.com/ ) .",
    "the database for _ h. sapiens _ was derived from the ariadne genomics resnet database , constructed from the various literature sources using medscan .",
    "medscan is the ariadne genomics proprietary natural language processing technology ( novichkova et al .",
    "2003 , daraselia et al .",
    "2003 ) . the databases for the baker s yeast",
    "_ s. cerevisiae _ , the nematode worm _ c. elegans _ , and the fruit fly , _ d. melanogaster _ were constructed by combining the data from published high - throughput experiments with the literature data obtained using medscan technology . for more details on the construction of these databases",
    "please refer to the pathwayassist manual ( http://www.ariadnegenomics.com/products/pathway.html ) .",
    "most of the ppi interactions among fly proteins ( 20496 out of 20595 or 99.5% ) are extracted from a single system - wide two - hybrid study ( giot et al .",
    "2003 ) , while most of worm interactions ( 5286 out of 5309 or 99.5% ) are from a large - scale two - hybrid study ( li et al . 2004 ) .",
    "an abnormally small average degree in the worm ppi network compared to that of other organisms might be explained by the fact that , unlike in the yeast ( ito et al .",
    "2001 ) and the fly ( giot et al . 2003 ) cases , the high - throughput two - hybrid assay of worm proteins was not truly genome - wide . indeed , in ( li et al .",
    "2004 ) the authors experimentally investigated interactions of only 1873 baits ( out of some 22000 worm proteins ) against genome - wide libraries of preys . this resulted in an identification of 4027 distinct pairs of interacting proteins which were subsequently extended to include a certain number of in - silico predicted `` interologs '' .",
    "the average degree of these tested 1873 baits ( or rather 632 of them that we found among our network proteins ) is approximately equal to 5.4 .",
    "not only it is much higher than the average degree 3.3 reported for all worm network proteins , but it is also remarkably close to the @xmath5 range found in the other three organisms .",
    "lists of paralogous pairs and their sequence similarities for all four species studied here were obtained by the following procedure .",
    "amino - acid sequences of individual proteins were obtained from the refseq database ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/refseq/ ) . for each organism ,",
    "the sequences were compared against themselves using the blastp program with the expectation value cutoff equal to 0.001 ( altschul et al .",
    "a global alignment similarity was then computed by adding together numbers of similar amino - acids from all non - overlapping locally aligned segments and dividing this number by the geometric average of two protein lengths .",
    "thus gaps between the aligned segments were considered to have zero similarity . in a case of overlapping segments",
    "we took the one with the highest percent of similarity .",
    "we estimated that about 2% of the true homologs are not recovered by this approach due to an incompleteness of the blastp output for local alignment .",
    "another sacrifice for quicker calculation is an underestimation of the global alignment score by 5 - 10% compared to more precise calculation after alignment using the clustalw algorithm ( thompson et al .",
    "1994 ) .    to avoid including pairs of proteins similar over only one of their domains",
    "we further restricted our set to only protein pairs with the similarity higher than 30% . at the end all protein pairs that have been aligned by blast but omitted from the final paralog list due to failing the similarity cutoff were searched for having common paralogs .",
    "if a common paralog was found , the pair was reinstated in the paralog list , even though its similarity is lower than the 30% cutoff .",
    "this work was supported by 1 r01 gm068954 - 01 grant from nigms .",
    "work at brookhaven national laboratory was carried out under contract no .",
    "de - ac02 - 98ch10886 , division of material science , u.s .",
    "department of energy .",
    "altschul , s.f . , gish , w. , miller , w. , myers , e.w . , and lipman , d.j .",
    "basic local alignment search tool .",
    "biol . _ * 215 * : 403 - 410 .",
    "dunbar , a.y . ,",
    "kamada , y. , jenkins , g.j . ,",
    "lowe , e.r . ,",
    "billecke , s.s . , and osawa , y. 2004 .",
    "ubiquitination and degradation of neuronal nitric - oxide synthase in vitro : dimer stabilization protects the enzyme from proteolysis . _",
    "mol pharmacol .",
    "_ * 66*:964 - 969 .",
    "li , s. , armstrong , c.m . , bertin , n. , ge , h. , milstein , s. , boxem , m. , vidalain , p.o .",
    ", han , j.d . , chesneau , a. , hao , t. et al . 2004 . a map of the interactome network of the metazoan c. elegans .",
    "_ science _ * 303 * : 540 - 543 .",
    "matadeen , r. , patwardhan , a. , gowen , b. , orlova , e.v . , pape , t. , cuff , m. , mueller , f. , brimacombe , r. , and van heel , m. 1999 .",
    "the escherichia coli large ribosomal subunit at 7.5 a resolution",
    ". _ structure fold des .",
    "_ * 12 * : 1575 - 1583 .",
    "mura , c. , cascio , d. , sawaya , m.r . , and eisenberg , d.s . 2001 .",
    "the crystal structure of a heptameric archaeal sm protein : implications for the eukaryotic snrnp core . _ proc .",
    "* 98 * : 5532 - 5537 .",
    "thompson , j.d .",
    ", higgins , d.g . , and gibson , t.j . 1994 .",
    "clustalw , improving the sensitivity of progressive multiple sequence alignment through sequence weighting , position - specific gap penalties and weight matrix choice . _",
    "nucleic acids res . _",
    "* 22 * : 4673 - 4680 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we demonstrate that protein - protein interaction ( ppi ) networks in several eucaryotic organisms contain significantly more self - interacting proteins than expected if such homodimers randomly appeared in the course of the evolution . </S>",
    "<S> we also show that on average homodimers have twice as many interaction partners than non - self - interacting proteins . </S>",
    "<S> more specifically the likelihood of a protein to physically interact with itself was found to be proportional to the total number of its binding partners . </S>",
    "<S> these properties of dimers are are in agreement with a phenomenological model in which individual proteins differ from each other by the degree of their `` stickiness '' or general propensity towards interaction with other proteins including oneself . </S>",
    "<S> a duplication of self - interacting proteins creates a pair of paralogous proteins interacting with each other . </S>",
    "<S> we show that such pairs occur more frequently than could be explained by pure chance alone . </S>",
    "<S> similar to homodimers , proteins involved in heterodimers with their paralogs on average have twice as many interacting partners than the rest of the network . </S>",
    "<S> the likelihood of a pair of paralogous proteins to interact with each other was also shown to decrease with their sequence similarity . </S>",
    "<S> this all points to the conclusion that most of interactions between paralogs are inherited from ancestral homodimeric proteins , rather than established de novo after the duplication . </S>",
    "<S> we finally discuss possible implications of our empirical observations from functional and evolutionary standpoints . </S>"
  ]
}