{
  "article_text": [
    "in both engineering and biology it is of interest to understand the design of complex networks  @xcite , a task known as reverse - engineering. in electronics , digital circuits are top - down - engineered starting from functional blocks , which are implemented using logic gates , which in turn are implemented using transistors  @xcite .",
    "reverse - engineering of an electronic circuit means starting with a transistor map and inferring the gate and block levels .",
    "current approaches to reverse - engineering of electronic circuits usually require prior knowledge of the library of modules used for forward - engineering  @xcite .",
    "+ in biology , increasing amounts of interaction networks are being experimentally characterized , yet there are few approaches to simplify them into understandable blueprints @xcite .",
    "+ here we present an approach for simplifying networks by creating coarse - grained networks in which each node is a pattern in the original network .",
    "this approach is based on network motifs , significant patterns of connections that recur throughout the network  @xcite .",
    "we define coarse - graining units , cgus , which can be used as nodes in a coarse - grained version of the network .",
    "we demonstrate this approach by coarse - graining an electronic and a biological network .",
    "* definition of cgus * : cgus are patterns which can optimally serve as nodes in a coarse - grained network",
    ". one can think of cgus as elementary circuit components with defined input and output ports , and internal computational nodes .",
    "the set of cgus comprise a dictionary of elements from which a coarse - grained version of the original network is built .",
    "+ the coarse - grained version of the network is a new network with fewer elements , in which some of the nodes are replaced by cgus .",
    "our approach to define cgus is loosely analogous to coding principles and to dictionary text compression techniques  @xcite .",
    "the goal is to choose a set of cgus that ( a ) is as small as possible , ( b ) each of which is as simple as possible , and which ( c ) make the coarse - grained network as small as possible .",
    "these three properties can be termed conciseness , simplicity and coverage. conciseness is defined by the number of total cgu types in the dictionary set .",
    "coverage is the number of nodes and edges eliminated by coarse - graining the network using the cgus . to define simplicity",
    ", we describe each occurrence of the subgraph , @xmath0 , as a black box. the black box has input ports and output ports , which represent the connections of @xmath0 to the rest of the network , @xmath1 ( fig 1 )",
    ".    there can be four types of nodes in @xmath0 : input nodes that receive only incoming edges from @xmath1 , output nodes that have only outgoing edges to @xmath1 , internal nodes with no connection to @xmath1 , and mixed nodes with both incoming and outgoing edges to @xmath1 . to obtain a minimal loss of information ,",
    "a coarse - grained version of @xmath0 includes ports , which carry out the interface to the rest of the network .",
    "the number of ports in the black box representing @xmath0 is : @xmath2 where @xmath3 is the number of input nodes , @xmath4 the number of output nodes and @xmath5 the number of mixed nodes ( internal nodes do not contribute ports and each mixed node contributes two ports ) .",
    "the lower the number of ports , @xmath6 , the more simple the cgu .",
    "+ after defining simplicity , coverage and conciseness , one can choose the optimal set of cgus . to choose the optimal set of cgus",
    ", we maximize a scoring function which is defined for a set of @xmath7 cgus : @xmath8 @xmath9 is the number of edges covered by all occurrences of the cgus , and therefore eliminated in the coarse - grained network .",
    "@xmath7 is the number of distinct cgus , @xmath10 is the number of internal nodes in the @xmath11-th cgu .",
    "@xmath12 is the difference between the number of nodes in the original network and the number of nodes and ports in the coarse - grained network : @xmath13 where @xmath14 is the number of nodes covered by all occurrences of the cgus , @xmath15 is the number of occurrences in the network of cgu @xmath11 , and @xmath16 is the number of ports of cgu @xmath11 . using this",
    "we obtain : @xmath17- [ \\alpha \\sum_{i=1}^n{n_i h_i}+\\beta n + \\gamma \\sum_{i=1}^n{t_i } ] \\label{eq4}\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] the scoring function has two terms : the first term , corresponding to coverage , corresponds to the simplification gained by coarse - graining , while the second term , corresponding to simplicity and conciseness , quantifies the complexity of the cgu dictionary .",
    "maximizing @xmath18 favors use of a small set of cgus , preferentially those that appear often , with many internal nodes and few mixed nodes ( since internal nodes do not contribute ports to @xmath16 , and mixed nodes contribute two ports ) .",
    "+ the last term in the scoring function , which is the total number of internal nodes in the dictionary , bounds the cgu size and prevents the trivial solution where the entire network is replaced by a single complex node .",
    "@xmath19,@xmath20,@xmath21 are parameters that can be set for various degrees of coarse - graining ( the results below are insensitive to varying these parameters over 3 orders of magnitude ) . + we use a simulated annealing approach  @xcite to find the optimal set of cgus for coarse - graining : there is potentially a huge number of subgraphs that can serve as candidate cgus .",
    "to reduce the number of candidate subgraphs , and to focus on those likely to play functional roles , we consider only subgraphs that occur in the network significantly more often than in randomized networks : network motifs  @xcite .",
    "a candidate set of cgus is obtained by first detecting all network motifs of @xmath22 nodes ( appendix a ) .",
    "the nodes of every occurrence of each motif are classified to one of the 4 types ( input / output / internal / mixed ) .",
    "this defines a connectivity profile for each occurrence .",
    "for example , the two subgraphs in fig 1 have the profiles ( i , i , t , t , o ) and ( i , i , t , m , o ) , where i , t , o , m represent input , internal , output and mixed nodes respectively .",
    "+ the occurrences of each motif are then grouped together according to their profile to form a cgu candidate @xcite .",
    "a cgu candidate of @xmath23 nodes is thus characterized by its topology ( an @xmath24 adjacency matrix ) and by a @xmath23-length profile vector of node classifications ( fig 3 ) .",
    "+ in the simulated annealing optimization algorithm , each cgu candidate is assigned a random spin variable which is either 1 if all its occurrences participate in the coarse - graining or 0 otherwise .",
    "cgu candidates with spin 1 compose the `` active set '' . at each step",
    "a spin is randomly chosen and flipped , and the coarse - graining score for the new active set is computed .",
    "the active set is updated according to a metropolis monte - carlo procedure  @xcite .",
    "+ once an optimal set of cgus is found a coarse - grained representation of the original network is formed by replacing each occurrence of a cgu with a node ( appendix b ) . generally the coarse - grained representation is a hybrid in which some nodes represent cgus , and other nodes are the original nodes .",
    "the algorithm can be repeated on the coarse - grained representation , to obtain higher levels of coarse - graining .",
    "+    note that the coarse - graining problem is quite different from the well - studied circuit partitioning problem @xcite , and from the detection of community structure in networks  @xcite .",
    "these algorithms seek to divide networks into subgraphs with minimal interconnections , usually resulting in a set of distinct and rather complex subgraphs .",
    "in contrast , coarse - graining seeks a small dictionary of simple subgraph types in order to help understand the function of the network in terms of recurring independent building blocks .",
    "an analogy is the detection of words in a text , from which spaces and punctuation marks have been removed , without prior knowledge of the language .",
    "to demonstrate the coarse - graining approach we analyzed an electronic circuit derived from the iscas89 benchmark circuit set  @xcite .",
    "the circuit is a module used in a digital fractional multiplier ( @xmath25  @xcite ) .",
    "the circuit is given as a netlist of 5 gate types ( and , or , nand , nor , not ) and a d - flipflop(dff ) . to synthesize a transistor level implementation of this circuit ( fig 2 ) we first replaced every dff occurrence with a standard implementation using 4 nand gates and one not gate  @xcite .",
    "all gates were then replaced with their standard transistor - transistor logic ( ttl ) implementation  @xcite , where nodes represent junctions between transistors ( for this purpose resistors and diodes were ignored , as were ground and vcc ) .",
    "the resulting transistor network ( fig 2 ) has 516 nodes and 686 edges .",
    "+ four cgus were detected in the transistor level , each with five or six nodes ( fig 3,4a ) .",
    "these patterns correspond to the transistor implementations of the five basic logic gates and , nand , nor , or and not ( fig 4a ) .",
    "these cgus were used to form a coarse - grained version of the network in which each node is a cgu . in this case coverage",
    "was complete , and all of the original nodes were included within cgus .",
    "this network , termed gate - level network had 99 nodes and 153 edges .",
    "+ we next iterated the coarse - graining process , by applying the algorithm to the gate - level network .",
    "one cgu with six nodes ( gates ) was detected .",
    "this cgu corresponds to a d - flip - flop with an additional logic gate ( fig 4b ) .",
    "a flip - flop level coarse - grained network was then formed with nodes which were either gates or flip - flops .",
    "this network had 59 nodes and 97 edges .",
    "+ we applied the coarse - graining algorithm again to the flip - flop level network.two types of cgus were found ( fig 4c ) , which correspond to units of a digital counter . using these cgus , we constructed the highest - level coarse - grained network in which each node is either a cgu or a gate .",
    "this network , depicted in fig 5 top panel , had 42 nodes and 56 edges .",
    "thus , the highest - level coarse - grained network has 12-fold fewer nodes and edges than the original transistor - level network .",
    "this high - level map corresponds to sequential connections of binary counter units , each of which halves the frequency of the binary stream obtained from the previous unit .",
    "this map thus describes an 8-bit counter  @xcite .",
    "+ in other electronic circuits , we find other cgus , including a xor built of 4 nand gates @xcite,@xcite ( data not shown ) .",
    "the coarse - graining approach appears to automatically detect favorite modules used by electronic engineers .",
    "recent studies have shown that biological networks contain significant network motifs  @xcite .",
    "theoretical and experimental studies have demonstrated that each network motif performs a key information processing function  @xcite .",
    "a coarse - grained version of biological networks is of interest because it would provide a simplified representation , focused on these important sub - circuits .",
    "however , whereas electronic circuits are composed of exact copies of library units , in biology the recurring black boxes may not be of precisely the same structure .",
    "in addition , the characterization of signaling and regulatory networks is currently incomplete due to experimental limitations .",
    "thus a more flexible definition of cgus is needed @xcite . to address these issues we modify our algorithm by allowing each cgu to represent a family of subgraphs , which share a common architectural theme .",
    "thus , the cgus are _ probabilistically generalized network motifs ( pgnm ) _ : network motifs of different sizes which approximately share a common connectivity pattern . + * probabilistic generalization of network motifs * : to define pgnms , we must first discuss the concept of block - models @xcite-@xcite .",
    "a block - model is a compact representation of a subgraph .",
    "it consists of two elements : 1 ) a partition of the subgraph nodes into discrete subsets , called _ roles _",
    "2 ) a statement about the presence or absence of a connection between roles ( fig 6 ) .",
    "a subgraph of @xmath23 nodes can be described by an adjacency matrix @xmath0 , where @xmath26 if a directed edge exists from node @xmath11 to node @xmath27 , and @xmath28 , if there is no connection . a block - model partitions the @xmath23 nodes into @xmath29 roles according to _",
    "structural equivalence_. two nodes are structurally equivalent if they share exactly the same connections to all other nodes .",
    "the block model is an @xmath30 matrix @xmath31 , where @xmath32 means that all nodes which share role @xmath3 have a directed connection to all nodes which share role @xmath33 ( fig 6 ) .",
    "+ in large subgraphs of real - world networks , perfect structural equivalence is not always seen .",
    "a block - model can still be used as an idealized structure which can be compared to a given subgraph .",
    "the distance between a subgraph and a proposed block - model , can be defined as @xcite : @xmath34 where @xmath35 is the within - block sum of squares : @xmath36 @xmath37 is the mean of the adjacency matrix values in block @xmath38 , and @xmath39 is the total sum of squares : @xmath40 where @xmath41 is the mean value of @xmath0@xcite . a subgraph with @xmath42 is perfectly described by its block model .",
    "for example , subgraph @xmath43 in fig @xmath44 has @xmath45 nodes .",
    "it can be described by a block - model with @xmath46 roles .",
    "nodes @xmath47 are assigned the first role and nodes @xmath48 are assigned the second role .",
    "the distance between the subgraph and the proposed block - model is @xmath49 .",
    "fig @xmath44 also shows a subgraph , @xmath50 , which is far from the proposed block model ( @xmath51 ) .",
    "+ finding the best block - model to fit arbitrary connectivity data is a combinatorially complex problem  @xcite , requiring exhaustive testing of different assignments of nodes to roles .",
    "however , an efficient algorithm to detect pgnms can be formed based on the fact that small network motifs in biological networks aggregate to form _ network motif topological generalizations _  @xcite .",
    "topological generalizations are subgraphs obtained from smaller network motifs , by replicating one or more of their roles , together with its connections  @xcite ( fig @xmath52 ) .",
    "an algorithm to detect pgnms is described in appendix c.    to determine the optimal dictionary of cgus , including the pgnms , we use the following modified version of the scoring function of eq 2 : @xmath53 @xmath7 , the number of cgus , is the number of basic motifs used .",
    "@xmath54 includes the set of all pgnms based on the cgus",
    ". each cgu can give rise to several pgnms of different sizes  @xcite .",
    "we analyzed a database of mammalian signal transduction pathways  @xcite based on the signal transduction knowledge environment @xcite .",
    "this dataset contains 94 proteins and 209 directed interactions ( fig 8) .",
    "the optimal coarse graining is based on a single motif - the @xmath55-node bifan ( fig 9 ) .",
    "thus @xmath56 .",
    "we find 9 occurrences of pgnms based on the bifan , labelled cgu0-cgu8 which share a common design consisting of a row of input nodes with overlapping interactions to a row of output nodes ( fig 9 ) .",
    "the input and output rows in these cgus sometimes represent proteins from the same sub - family ( eg . jnk1,jnk2 and jnk3 in cgu 3 ) , and in other cases they represent proteins from different sub - families ( erk and p38 in cgu 6 ) .",
    "this type of structure allows hard - wired combinatorial activation and inhibition of outputs .",
    "similar structures were described in transcription regulation networks ( dense overlapping regulons @xcite ) .",
    "+ using this cgu , the signaling network can be coarse - grained ( fig 10a ) , showing three major signaling channels ( fig 10b ) .",
    "these channels correspond to the well - studied erk , jnk and p38 map - kinase cascades , which respond to stress signals and growth factors  @xcite .",
    "+ each channel is made of three cgus in a cascade . in each cascade ,",
    "the top and bottom cgus contain only positive ( kinase ) interactions , and the middle cgu contains both positive and negative ( phosphatase ) interactions .",
    "the p38 and erk channels intersect at cgu 6 .",
    "the mapk phosphatase 2 ( mkp2 ) participates in both the jnk pathway ( cgu2 ) and the erk pathway ( cgu8 ) , whereas mapk phosphatase 5 ( mkp5 ) participates in both jnk pathway ( cgu2 ) and the p38 pathway ( cgu5 ) .",
    "the mapkkk ask1 and tak1 are shared by both the jnk pathway ( cgu1 ) and p38 pathway ( cgu4 )  @xcite .",
    "interestingly , the coarse - grained signaling network displays a different set of network motifs than the original network , with prominent cascades ( fig 10c ) . similarly , the electronic network displayed different cgus at each level ( fig 4 ) .",
    "these networks are therefore _ self - dissimilar _",
    "@xcite : the structure at each level of resolution is different . +",
    "we presented an approach for coarse - graining networks in which a complex network can be represented by a compact and more understandable version . performing an optimization on the space of network motifs of different sizes",
    ", we found optimal units for coarse - graining , cgus , which allow a maximal reduction of the network , while keeping a concise and simple dictionary of elements .",
    "we demonstrated that this method can be used to fully reverse - engineer electronic circuits , from the transistor level to the highest module level , without prior knowledge of the library components used to create them .",
    "+ for biological networks , where modularity may be less stringent than electronic circuits , we modified the algorithm to seek a coarse - grained network , using a small set of structures of different sizes that form probabilistically generalized network motifs . using this approach , a coarse - grained version of a mammalian signaling network was established , using one cgu composed of cross - activating map - kinases . in the coarse - grained network",
    "one can easily visualize intersecting signalling pathways and feedback loops .",
    "the present approach allows a simplified coarse - grained view of this important signaling network , showing the major signaling channels , and specifies the recurring circuit element ( cgu ) that may characterize protein signaling pathways in other cellular systems and organisms .",
    "+ biological and electronic networks are both self - dissimilar  @xcite , showing different network motifs on different levels .",
    "this contrasts with views based on statistical - mechanics near phase - transition points which emphasize self - similarity of complex systems . + it is important to stress that not every network can be effectively coarse - grained , only networks with particular modularity and topology .",
    "the method can readily be applied to nondirected networks .",
    "it would be interesting to apply this approach to additional biological networks , to study the systems - level function of each cgu , and to study which networks evolve to have a topology that can be coarse - grained .",
    "we thank j. doyle , h. mcadams , j. e. ferrell , y. srebro , e. dekel , and all members of our lab for valuable discussions .",
    "we thank the israel science foundation , nih , and minerva for support .",
    "s.i . and r.m .",
    "thank the horowitz complexity science foundation phd fellowship .",
    "the set of candidate cgus should ideally be the complete set of subgraphs of different sizes found in the network .",
    "the complete set of subgraphs is , however , too large for the optimization procedure to effectively work in practice ( there are 199 4-node connected directed subgraph types , 9,364 5-node subgraph types , 1,530,843 6-node subgraph types etc .",
    ", a significant fraction of which actually occur in the real networks ) . due to computational limitations , we considered in the present study only a small subset of the subgraphs , those which occur significantly more often in the network than in suitably randomized networks .",
    "these subgraphs are termed network motifs  @xcite .",
    "+ for the detection of network motifs we considered two randomized ensembles : ( 1 ) random networks in which each node preserves the number of incoming , outgoing and mutual edges ( edges that run in both direction ) connected to it in the real network.(2 ) random networks in which each node preserves the number of incoming , outgoing and mutual edges connected to it in the real network , and in addition each node preserves the clustering coefficient of that node in the real network  @xcite-@xcite,@xcite . the detection of network motifs , using ensemble ( 1 ) as a null hypotheses was described in  @xcite .",
    "the random networks created this way often have a different clustering coefficient for each node than in the real network . as a result ,",
    "the number of nondirected triangles in the real network is generally different from the randomized network ensemble ( either higher , as in the transistor network , or lower , as in the protein signaling network ) . to control for this , in the more stringent ensemble ( 2 ) , we preserve also the clustering coefficient of each node  @xcite ( `` clustering sequence '' ) , using a simulated annealing algorithm .",
    "+ to create such an ensemble of randomized networks we first randomize the real network with a markov - chain monte - carlo algorithm , which successively selects two node pairs and performs a `` switch '' , rewiring their edges , as described in  @xcite . to define the clustering sequence of a network of @xmath7 nodes : @xmath57",
    ", we treat its nondirected version  @xcite : @xmath58 @xmath59 is the number of edges connected to node @xmath11 ( which represent either incoming , outgoing or mutual edges in the directed version ) .",
    "@xmath15 is the number of triangles connected to node @xmath11 .",
    "denoting the clustering sequence of the random networks by @xmath60 we carry out switches , again randomly selecting pairs of edges and rewiring them , but this time with probability : @xmath61 where @xmath62 is an effective temperature , lowered by a factor of 5% between sweeps , and @xmath63 , the energy function , is the distance between the clustering sequences of the real and random networks : @xmath64 the random networks obtained have precisely the same clustering sequence and degree sequences as the real network .",
    "they are thus more constrained than in ensemble ( 1 ) . in the presently studied networks ,",
    "they contain almost precisely the same number of nondirected triangles as the real network .",
    "however , the numbers of directed triangle subtypes differ from the real network",
    ". there are 7 types of directed 3-node triangle subgraphs  @xcite .",
    "the relative abundance of these 7 subgraphs in the random ensemble is determined by different moments of the degree sequences  @xcite .",
    "thus , 3-node directed subgraphs can still be found as motifs using ensemble ( 2 ) , depending on the network degree sequences .",
    "for the transistor network and signalling network studied , the two sets of network - motifs of 3 - 6 nodes detected using ensembles ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) had an overlap of more than 90% . using ensemble ( 2 ) on the transistor network results in somewhat fewer motifs that are triangles with dangling edges , and more tree - like motifs than ensemble ( 1 ) . using ensemble ( 2 ) on the protein signaling network results in somewhat fewer tree - like motifs . for both networks ,",
    "the coarse - graining algorithm detected the same optimal sets of cgus using either ensembles .",
    "thus , in the present examples , coarse - graining is not affected by choice of random network ensemble .",
    "the desired cgu set should have minimal overlap ( shared nodes ) between occurrences of the cgus . in cases where shared nodes are necessary",
    ", the cgu partitioning should be such that the shared nodes do not affect the function of each cgu .",
    "the solutions that maximize eq . 2 or eq .",
    "8 often have significant overlap between the cgus . here",
    "we describe rules that disqualify solutions in which overlap would interfere with the coarse grained representation .",
    "we also describe how an acceptable cgu partitioning is performed in cases where overlap is allowed .",
    "+ once a set of cgus which maximizes the scoring function is found , it is tested for the following criterion : allowed solutions are those in which each overlapping node receives inputs from only one cgu ( fig 11 ) .",
    "cgu sets which do nt meet this criterion are disqualified , and a new set is sought .",
    "( note that the overlapping nodes are allowed to send outputs to both cgus ) .    in acceptable cgu sets , in every case of an overlap ,",
    "the overlapping node is duplicated , and appears once in each of the cgu occurrences .",
    "the acceptance criterion above ensures that the inputs to the duplicated nodes can be fully captured by one of the cgus , thus ensuring that the function of the coarse grained network can be inferred from the functions of individual cgus .",
    "finally , in cases where the overlapping node only sends output to the cgus and does not receive inputs from them , an additional node is created in the coarse - grained network .",
    "this node has all of the connections of the original node , and sends outputs to the duplicated node in each cgu ( e.g. mkp2 and mkp5 in fig9,10 and fig11c )",
    "topological generalizations are subgraphs obtained from smaller network motifs , by replicating one or more of their roles , together with their connections  @xcite .",
    "the role - replication operation does not increase the number of roles in the resulting generalized subgraph , which maintains a perfect fit to the block model of the network motif .",
    "additionally each node has the same role in both the generalized subgraph and in every occurrence of the basic motif included in it .",
    "the role assignment is thus automatically defined .",
    "probabilistically generalized network motifs ( pgnm s ) are subgraphs which have a small distance @xmath65 ( eq .",
    "5 ) from its block model . + to detect pgnms we start with a network motif @xmath66 .",
    "the nodes of each occurrence of @xmath66 are partitioned into roles @xcite .",
    "we then form a nondirected graph @xmath67 in which each node , @xmath68 is an occurrence of @xmath66 in the original network @xmath1 , and a nondirected edge between two nodes @xmath68 and @xmath69 is set if a ) any of the nodes of these occurrences in the original network @xmath1 are connected by an edge , or b ) any of the nodes in the original network overlap . after establishing @xmath67 we start from each node @xmath68 and perform a search , consecutively adding the one node in @xmath67 which provides the best fit to the block model of @xmath66 ( the resulting joined subgraph with the smallest increase in @xmath65 ) .",
    "we stop when @xmath65 is greater than a threshold ( we use @xmath70 ) . when calculating the fit to the block - model , we partition the nodes of the joined subgraph according to their role assignment in @xmath66 . if a node in @xmath1 has different roles in two different occurrences of @xmath66 , when calculating @xmath65 for the joined subgraph , we take the smallest distance obtained from all possible labellings of this node ( for example , nodes @xmath71 in subgraph @xmath50 of fig @xmath44 share role @xmath72 in the bifan @xmath73 and role @xmath74 in the bifan @xmath75 ) .",
    "we iterate this procedure by beginning with each @xmath76 , establishing a list of embedded subgraphs ( if two embedded structures have the same @xmath65 we keep only the larger one ) .",
    "these subgraphs are probabilistic generalizations of @xmath66 , tagged by their distance from a perfect generalization , @xmath65 . in finding the optimal coarse - graining we perform a simulated annealing algorithm , sequentially generating a new active set of cgus , recalculating the scoring function ( eq . 8) and accepting the new active set with a metropolis monte - carlo probability . during the optimization , we also test the resulting score from coarse - graining only subsets of the pgnms of each cgu . for",
    "an alternative definition of probabilistic network motifs see @xcite +    99 s. h. strogatz , nature 410 , 268 - 76 .",
    "r. albert , a.l .",
    "barabasi , reviews of modern physics 74 , 47 ( 2002 ) .",
    "m. e. j. newman , siam review 45 , 167 - 256 ( 2003 ) .",
    "p. horowitz and w. hill , the art of electronics ( cambridge university press , cambridge , 1989 ) .",
    "s. kundu , in proc .",
    "ieee intl test conf .",
    "( ieee cs press , 1998 ) , p. 372 . m. c. hansen , h. yaclin , and j. p. hayes , ieee design and test , 72 ( 1999 ) . h. h. mcadams and l. shapiro , science 269 , 650 ( 1995 )",
    ". l. h. hartwell , j. j. hopfield , s. leibler , et al . ,",
    "nature 402 , c47 ( 1999 ) .",
    "p. dhaeseleer , s. liang , and r. somogyi , bioinformatics 16 , 707 ( 2000 ) .",
    "k. w. kohn , chaos 11 , 84 ( 2001 ) .",
    "e. ravasz , a. l. somera , d. a. mongru , et al . ,",
    "science 297 , 1551 ( 2002 ) .",
    "m. e. csete and j. c. doyle , science 295 , 1664 ( 2002 ) .",
    "a. w. rives and t. galitski , proc natl acad sci u s a 100 , 1128 ( 2003 ) .",
    "j. j. tyson , k. c. chen , and b. novak , curr .",
    "cell biol .",
    "15 , 221 ( 2003 ) .",
    "t. s. gardner , d. di bernardo , d. lorenz , et al . ,",
    "science 301 , 102 ( 2003 ) .",
    "m.a . beer , s. tavazoie , cell 117(2):185 - 198 ( 2004 ) . s. kalir and u. alon , cell 117:713 - 720 ( 2004 ) .",
    "u. alon , science , 301:1866 - 1867 ( 2003 ) .",
    "s. shen - orr , r. milo , s. mangan , et al.,nat genet 31 , 64 ( 2002 ) .",
    "r. milo , s. shen - orr , s. itzkovitz , et al . ,",
    "science 298 , 824 ( 2002 ) .",
    "r. milo , s. itzkovitz , n. kashtan , et al .",
    ", science 303 , 5663 ( 2004 ) .",
    "n. kashtan , s. itzkovitz , r. milo , et al .",
    "e 70 , 031909 ( 2004 ) .",
    "s. itzkovitz , r. milo , n. kastan , et al . , phys rev e 68 , 026127 ( 2003 ) .",
    "r. milo , n. kashtan , s. itzkovitz , et al . , cond - mat/0312028 ( 2003 ) .",
    "a. r. barron , j. rissanen , and b. yux , ieee transactions on information theory 44 , 2743 ( 1998 ) .",
    "t. c. bell , j. g. cleary , and i. h. witten , text compression ( prentice hall advanced reference series , englewood cliffs , nj , 1990 ) .",
    "s. kirkpatrick , c. gelatt , and m. vecchi , science 220 , 671 ( 1983 ) .",
    "m. newman and g. barkema , monte carlo methods in statistical physics ( oxford university press , 1999 ) . c. j. alpert and a. b. kahng , integr . , vlsi j. 19 , 1 ( 1995 ) . m. girvan and m. e. j. newman , proc . natl .",
    "usa 99 , 7821 - 7826 ( 2002 ) .",
    "h. zhou , phys .",
    "e 67 , 061901 ( 2003 ) . h. zhou and r. lipowsky , lect notes comput sci , 3038 , 1062 - 9 , ( 2004 ) . f. brglez , d. bryan , and k. kozminski , proc .",
    "symposium on circuits and systems , 1929 ( 1989 ) .",
    "r. f. cancho , c. janssen , and r. v. sole , phys rev e 64 , 046119 ( 2001 ) .",
    "t. nagle , b. d. carrol , and j. d. irwin , an introduction to computer logic ( prentice - hall , englewood cliffs , 1975 ) .",
    "j. berg , m. lassig , cond - mat/0308251 .",
    "s. mangan and u. alon , proc natl acad sci u s a 100 , 11980 ( 2003 ) .",
    "m. ronen , r. rosenberg , b. i. shraiman , et al .",
    ", proc natl acad sci u s a 99 , 10555 ( 2002 ) .",
    "s. mangan , a. zaslaver , and u. alon , jmb 334 , 197 ( 2003 ) .",
    "a. zaslaver , a. mayo , r. rosenberg , et al . ,",
    "nat genet 36 , 486 - 491 ( 2004 ) .",
    "g. lahav , n. rosenfeld , a. sigal , et al . ,",
    "nat genet 36:147 - 150 ( 2004 ) .",
    "n. rosenfeld , m. b. elowitz , and u. alon , j mol biol 323 , 785 ( 2002 ) .",
    "h. c. white , s. a. boorman , and r. l. breiger , am .",
    "j. sociol .",
    "81 , 730 ( 1976 ) .",
    "s. wasserman , k. faust , social network analysis ( cambridge university press , cambridge 1994 ) .",
    "w. h. panning , social networks 4 , 81 - 101 ( 1982 ) .",
    "r. dobrin , q. k. beg and a. l. barabasi , bmc bioinformatics 5 : 10 ( 2004 ) c. y. huang and j. e. ferrell , jr .",
    ", proc natl acad sci u s a 93 , 10078 ( 1996 ) .",
    "u. s. bhalla and r. iyengar , science 283 , 381 ( 1999 ) .",
    "s. j. charette , j. n. lavoie , h. lambert , et al .",
    ", mol cell biol 20 , 7602 ( 2000 ) .",
    "a. j. levine , cell 88 , 323 ( 1997 ) .",
    "g. pearson , f. robinson , t. beers gibson , et al .",
    ", endocr rev 22 , 153 ( 2001 ) .",
    "h. ichijo , e. nishida , k. irie , et al . ,",
    "science 275,5296 ( 1997 ) .",
    "w. wang , g. zhou , m.c .",
    "hu , et al . ,",
    ", 272,36 ( 1997 ) . j. m. kyriakis and j. avruch , physiol rev 81 , 807 ( 2001 ) . stke.sciencemag.org .",
    "d. h. wolpert and w. g. macready , in unifying themes in complex systems , y. bar - yam ( ed . ) , 626 ( 2000 ) .",
    "j. m. carlson and j. doyle , proc natl acad sci u s a 99 , 2538 ( 2002 ) .",
    "two subgraph occurrences with connectivity profile vectors @xmath77 and @xmath78 are grouped together if there exists a permutation @xmath79 of the nodes that preserves the subgraph structure and for which the permuted profile vectors obey @xmath80 .",
    "the new active set is accepted with probability @xmath81 , where @xmath82 is the score difference from the previous active set , and @xmath62 is an effective temperature , lowered by a factor of 5% between sweeps .",
    "this distance measure accounts for the size of the subgraph , and is more appropriate than measures such as the hamming distance ( number of edges which have to be added or removed to obtain a perfect fit to a block - model ) .",
    "when establishing the cgu candidate set we also ignore the connectivity profile of subgraphs .",
    "this further softens the cgu criteria .",
    "this scoring function still favors units with few mixed nodes , because they affect the number of ports , @xmath79 in the coarse - grained network ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> can complex engineered and biological networks be coarse - grained into smaller and more understandable versions in which each node represents an entire pattern in the original network ? to address this , we define coarse - graining units ( cgu ) as connectivity patterns which can serve as the nodes of a coarse - grained network , and present algorithms to detect them . </S>",
    "<S> we use this approach to systematically reverse - engineer electronic circuits , forming understandable high - level maps from incomprehensible transistor wiring : first , a coarse - grained version in which each node is a gate made of several transistors is established . </S>",
    "<S> then , the coarse - grained network is itself coarse - grained , resulting in a high - level blueprint in which each node is a circuit - module made of multiple gates . </S>",
    "<S> we apply our approach also to a mammalian protein - signaling network , to find a simplified coarse - grained network with three main signaling channels that correspond to cross - interacting map - kinase cascades . </S>",
    "<S> we find that both biological and electronic networks are self - dissimilar , with different network motifs found at each level . </S>",
    "<S> the present approach can be used to simplify a wide variety of directed and nondirected , natural and designed networks . </S>"
  ]
}