{
  "article_text": [
    "along with the progress in study of biological properties of polymer ( such as dna ) molecules , their mechanical features in solutions have also been investigated recently@xcite . modeling the macromolecules",
    "is a key in studying the dynamics of single molecules or solutions .",
    "the bead - spring chain model is a widely used model to simulate the chain molecules .",
    "if the entropic springs connecting the beads are assumed nonlinear , the governing equations of the system can not be solved analytically .",
    "the development of efficient numerical procedures becomes then necessary .",
    "indeed , the increasing numbers of beads in the molecule chain makes the numerical simulation difficult and time - consuming .",
    "however , the dumbbell model with only two beads is known to be computationally efficient .",
    "furthermore , it can yield good results if appropriate factors , such as internal viscosity , hydrodynamic interactions , are considered .",
    "there are two main approaches in investigating polymers in solutions : one is to study the bulk rheology of polymeric solutions @xcite and the other is to chase the dynamics of a single molecules in detail @xcite . with the ability to examine dynamics of macromolecule chains by fluorescence microscopy measurement developed in recent years , the research on the deformation and dynamics of single molecules have progressed substantially .    in the study of bulk rheology of polymer solutions ,",
    "the dynamics of the flow of start - up or sudden cessation have been discussed theoretically and experimentally .",
    "@xcite studied the finitely extensible nonlinear elastic ( fene ) dumbbell model with internal viscosity ( iv ) .",
    "they discussed the contribution of iv to the bulk rheology of polymer solutions .    on the other hand , by video fluorescence microcopy method",
    ", @xcite experimentally studied the fractional extension of @xmath0-phage dna molecules in steady shear flow for different weissenberg numbers that denote the dimensionless shear rates .",
    "they also calculated the probability distribution of the extension by a statistical method .",
    "although the bulk rheology can be obtained by further computation of the extension of the dumbbell model molecules , the analysis of the extension and its distribution for specific polymers analytically is still limited in the literature @xcite .    in this paper , the fene dumbbell model with iv proposed by @xcite",
    "is employed to study the extensions of @xmath0-phage dna molecules in steady shear flow .",
    "after numerical computation , the results of molecule extension and probability distribution are compared to that obtained in experiment by @xcite .",
    "the plot of fractional extension for different weissenberg numbers is also superimposed by that of different models , e.g. , the bead - spring model with wormlike spring by @xcite and classical fene dumbbell model by @xcite .",
    "we show that the fene dumbbell model with iv can yield good agreement in simulation of @xmath0-phage dna molecules .    in section 2 , we give a brief description of the dumbbell model with iv and its governing stochastic differential equation .",
    "in section 3 , the details of the algorithm to solve the governing equation and the values of parameters are given .",
    "the numerical results are presented and discussed in section 4 , followed by concluding remarks .",
    "from classical physics viewpoint , the mass points , beads of the dumbbell model are assumed to be subjected to three forces : 1 ) a hydrodynamic force , which describes the resistance to motion of the bead bathing in the solvent , 2 ) a connector force , which is denoted by the spring between the beads , 3 ) a brownian force , which is caused by the rapidly bombarding of the beads by small solvent molecules .",
    "the second force is due to the entropic force leading the molecules to their statistical equilibrium positions .",
    "it is natural to think that there exists , a forth force , the resistance to motion experienced during changes in the molecule conformation . in what follows",
    ", the internal viscosity force is introduced to reflect such intramolecular resistance effect .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^ \" , ]     for the fene dumbbells , there is a certain probability that the maximum allowed spring extension @xmath1 is exceeded for any finite time steps . to avoid this problem , we adopt the rejection method that all moves larger than a fixed big value are rejected . because the extension that is very close to the maximum allowed value will bring bad results , as proposed by @xcite , we reject all moves which lead to a value of @xmath2 larger than @xmath3 and note that all the variables we use are in dimensionless form .",
    "+    figure 3 .",
    "flow chart of the simulation    after giving the initial position , the connector vector will be calculated by the algorithm stated above .",
    "figure 3 shows the flow chart of the procedure . to obtain a good valuation of the mean extension , @xmath4 molecules or more",
    "should be considered , that is , the procedure will be performed repeatedly to yield more accurate mean value of the molecule extension .",
    "in this section , the computational method described in section 3 will be applied to the solution of equation ( 9 ) to obtain the extension distributions of the dumbbell of @xmath0-phage dna moleculesfor different weissenberg numbers .",
    "simulation results will be compared with the experimental data by @xcite and the simulation results of fene model @xcite , as well as with the wormlike spring model with hydrodynamic interactions @xcite .",
    "first , we study the extension s fluctuations along time . after the numerical experiments with the parameters listed in table 1 for @xmath5 dimensionless time steps with @xmath6 , we obtained the time history of one dna molecule extension at @xmath7 , as demonstrated in figure 4 .",
    "the fractional extension means the ratio between extension of one molecule with its contour length , @xmath8 .",
    "it can be found out from the raw data that there are large fluctuations in the extension of the molecules even at low shear rates .",
    "dimensionless extension versus time    next , we study the mean extension of 1000 molecules for different weissenberg numbers . in the simulation , the molecular extension is projected in the @xmath9-@xmath10 plane to match smith s experimental data obtained by fluorescence microscopy with intensified video camera perpendicular to the flow - vorticity plane . every simulation with different @xmath11",
    "has given a specific mean extension value after @xmath12 time steps when the average molecular extension appears steady .",
    "in figure 5 , we compare our simulation obtained with the fene dumbbell model accounting for internal viscosity with the experimental data by @xcite . the dumbbell model without iv @xcite and the wormlike model with hydrodynamic interactions",
    "@xcite are also superimposed in the plot .",
    "the classical fene dumbbell model can not predict the extension result when weissenburg number is high .",
    "our dumbbell model and wormlike model have given better values at high weissenberg numbers .",
    "dimensionless extension of dna molecules versus @xmath11    when @xmath13 , that is , the shear rate of the solvent vanishes , the fluctuations of molecular extension are caused by the brownian force bombarding on dna molecules of small solvent molecules .",
    "when @xmath11 increases , the extension reaches an asymptotic plateau as found by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "our simulation results have better agreement with the experimental data compared to the other two simulations presented in figure 5 , especially when the value of weissenberg number is high .",
    "we remark that this agreement with available experimental data is obtained with a relatively simple mathematical model where the internal viscosity effects were taken into account .    finally , we study the probability distribution of extension with the numerical methodology described in section 3 . as shown in figure 4 , from every snapshot of one dna molecule we can get different values of extension .",
    "further , every molecule at the same time shows a us different extension .",
    "now , we investigate the probability distribution of the extension of dna molecules for some specific weissenberg numbers . after sampling 1000 dna molecules during steady state , we plotted the probability distribution function ( pdf ) of the dimensionless extension in figure 6 .",
    "the pdf looks gaussian in shape at small weissenberg number ( @xmath14 ) . note further that when the weissenberg number increases , the peak of the pdf decreases and the distribution broadens . at large weissenberg numbers ( @xmath15 )",
    ", the pdf appears like white noise . for comparison ,",
    "the experimental results by @xcite were superimposed in figure 6 .",
    "as seen , the simulation results have good qualitative and quantitative agreement with the experimental results .",
    "the probability distribution function ( pdf ) of the dimensionless extension    the demonstrated agreement with the experimental results is remarkable , given relative simplicity of the dumbbell model with iv and its computational efficiency .",
    "the model and the developed computational implementation provide a tool for the analysis of extension and rheology properties .",
    "in this paper , we focussed our analysis on the fene dumbbell model with internal viscosity for the single dna molecule in shear flow . the brownian dynamics simulation",
    "was used to study the extension between the two beads of the dumbbell .",
    "the results are in agreement with the experimental data , which is especially important for high weissenberg numbers .",
    "the probability distribution functions of the extension were also presented and the qualitative and quantitative agreement with available experiment data was demonstrated .",
    "smith d. e. , babcock h. p. and chu s. 1999 .",
    "single polymer dynamics in steady shear flow , _ science _ , * 258 * , 1724 - 1727 hur j. s. and shaqfeh e. s. g. , 2000 .",
    "brownian dynamics simulations of single dna molecules in shear flow .",
    "_ j. rheol . _",
    "* 44*,713 - 742"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the results of brownian dynamics simulations of a single dna molecule in shear flow are presented taking into account the effect of internal viscosity . </S>",
    "<S> the dissipative mechanism of internal viscosity is proved necessary in the research of dna dynamics . </S>",
    "<S> a stochastic model is derived on the basis of the balance equation for forces acting on the chain . </S>",
    "<S> the euler method is applied to the solution of the model . </S>",
    "<S> the extensions of dna molecules for different weissenberg numbers are analyzed . </S>",
    "<S> comparison with the experimental results available in the literature is carried out to estimate the contribution of the effect of internal viscosity .    </S>",
    "<S> effect of internal viscosity , dumbbell model , brownian dynamics , dna molecules in shear flow </S>"
  ]
}