{
  "article_text": [
    "textbooks on quantum mechanics typically begin by discussing the wave - particle dualism in its extreme aspects : such processes are best described in the particle picture , such other in the wave picture . some texts , like schiff s @xcite ,",
    "for example , do then present a strictly correct , but too succinct quantum mechanical viewpoint .",
    "after this the mathematical formalism is developed , and only occasionally the qualitative aspects of the theory are touched upon . it is left to the student the not - so - easy task of integrating the qualitative and quantitative fundamentals of quantum theory into a logically coherent , visualizable picture of the atomic world .    in the present paper",
    "i first make an analysis and criticism of the concept of dualism .",
    "our purpose is to sharply expose the artificiality and non - uniqueness of both the wave and the particle pictures . to our knowledge",
    "the best analysis of the quantum mechanical dualism is that of h. reichenbach , in his book _ philosophic foundations of quantum mechanics _",
    "i am therefore guided by reichenbach s ideas in our study of the meaning of the wave - particle dualism .",
    "second , and more important , a qualitative picture of microscopic reality is advocated , which is consistent with the more abstract interpretation of quantum mechanics .",
    "as is well known , this interpretation assigns physical reality to observable facts only .",
    "the key to our preferred language is to abandon thinking of micro - objects ",
    "i shall deal with _ electrons _ for definiteness  as having permanent spatiality ; that is , as having spatial properties at all times .",
    "for instance , the question where is the electron when it is not observable ?  is meaningless , since the electron by definition does not have a place when it does not participate in an observable phenomenon .",
    "this meaninglessness is not a mere consequence of unobservability .",
    "it is rather a matter of adequate definition .    in section 2",
    "reichenbach s ideas of phenomenon and interphenomenon are introduced , as a basis for the discussion of the wave - particle dualism . in sec .",
    "3 an alternative language is presented , which pre - empties micro - objects such as electrons or photons of classical - like spatial attributes , such as temporal continuity of position or shape , trajectory , or propagation .",
    "i try to make it clear that there is no real need for such attributes in micro - objects .",
    "next ( sec .",
    "4 ) both viewpoints - i.e. , those of sections 2 and 3 - are applied to a physical example .",
    "i call the reader s attention to the fact that physics progresses by increasing degrees of abstraction . concluding remarks are made in the last section .",
    "reichenbach ( p. 21 of @xcite ) defines _ phenomena _ as occurrences which are so easily inferable from macroscopic data that they may be considered observable in a wider sense .  in the same page",
    "he rightly points out that the phenomena are ... determinate in the same sense as the unobserved objects of classical physics . as a matter of fact",
    ", physicists are not troubled by the question of the reality of observable - but - unobserved events , no more than by the question of the reality of unobserved trees . as r. p. feynman puts it : nature does not know what you are looking at , and she behaves the way she is going to behave whether you bother to take down the data or not.@xcite in other words , the concept of phenomenon supposes berkeley s problem  solved .",
    "a satisfactory solution is given by a. j. ayer @xcite .",
    "_ interphenomena _ are occurrences ... constructed in the form of an interpolation within the world of phenomena  ( p. 21 of @xcite ) .",
    "they are logical constructs similar to phenomena , usable to fill the gaps in the world of phenomena , so that the whole have an appearance of continuity in time .",
    "notice that this is a purely mental process !",
    "it is precisely this process that i intend to dispose of , as will be seen below .",
    "next , reichenbach says that the distinction betien phenomena and interphenomena is the quantum mechanical analogue of the distinction between observed and unobserved things  ( p. 21 of @xcite ) .",
    "this analogy is somewhat misleading , because the relation between phenomena and interphenomena is not so simple as that between observed and unobserved macro - objects .",
    "if one likes labels , we might call the question of interphenomena berkeley s problem of the second degree : formerly one had to construct objects out of actual or expected sense - experiences ; here one has to define entities related to experience only through its end points , the initial and final events .",
    "after these preliminaries , it may be said that the particle and wave pictures in quantum theory represent different choices of interphenomena . in the former ,",
    "the gap between , say , two consecutive electron appearances ( two happenings ,  or phenomena , involving the electron ) is filled by an imagined trajectory ( interphenomena ! ) traveled by the electron , imagined as a point - like object . with wave - like interphenomena , on the other hand , the same gap if filled by imagining the first phenomenon as a disturbance in a medium , then a wave - like propagation of the disturbance , and finally a quick coalescing of the wave into another point - like disturbance .",
    "the considerations of the preceding section will be illustrated by an example in the next section . here",
    "the dualistic view is countered with what i consider a more rational and satisfactory picture .",
    "the point is this : there is no need for interphenomena . beween two consecutive , observable events nothing happens to the electron . during this time interval",
    "the electron is nowhere , it is out of space .",
    "one is not allowed to say that it has as indefinite position  somewhere in the neighborhood of the events .",
    "contrarily to the situation with macroscopic things , micro - objects like electrons do not constantly occupy a place , they have a place only when they appear .",
    "electrons have a permanent potentiality to interact , mathematically expressed as its charge , and hence to appear in space , but no permanent spatiality .",
    "( this is a qualitative content of the well known assertion that the state function @xmath0 gives a probability amplitude , not a wave amplitude .",
    "see also section iv.3 in @xcite . ) in other words , its spatiality is limited , or discontinuous in time.i hope to make this point clearer in next section .",
    "one might object that this picture has the disadvantage of being more abstract than the dual pictures .",
    "my answer to this is : ( 1 ) abstract  is a relative term : a moment s reflection may convince the reader that the classical concept of trajectory is also quite abstract , though less so than quantum mechanical concepts ; and ( 2 ) progress in physics is often reached by increasing degrees of abstraction , as for example the abandonment of a material ether as the medium of electromagnetic waves .",
    "this is only natural , since concrete  ideas are just those of our too limited , ordinary sense experience .",
    "let us now illustrate the problem through an idealized experiment of diffraction of an electron by a slit in a diaphragm @xcite .",
    "figure 1 is a sketch of the experimental situation : _ a _ is the electron source , _ s _ is the slit in the diaphragm , and _",
    "b _ is the point on the screen where the electron is absorbed .",
    "the source is supposed to be so weak that only one electron is emitted at a time . the emission of an electron at _ a _ and its absorption at _ b _ are point - like events , and are phenomena in the sense defined above .",
    "let us call them process @xmath1 and process @xmath2 , respectively .",
    "the space and time gap between these phenomena has been filled by reichenbach with particle - like interphenomena and with wave - like interphenomena , which i shall now discuss .",
    "note that these constructs are not incorrect .",
    "they are logically sound , indeed .",
    "the point to be emphasized in this paper is rather their artificiality .",
    "my claim is that it is more illuminating to discard interphenomena altogether , and to consider quantum mechanical objects as entities which do not always occupy space .      in this picture",
    "the electron is said to be a concentrated lump of matter , which after process @xmath1 at _ a _ travels through space along a straight path from _ a _ to _",
    "then it proceeds along another straight line from _ s _ to _ b _ , where process @xmath2 occurs .",
    "this is called a _ normal interpretation _ , which is another important concept in reichenbach s analysis",
    ": it means that the constructed interphenomena obey physical laws which do not sharply differ from the laws of the observed world of phenomena @xcite .",
    "( otherwise it is called an _",
    "anomalous interpretation_. see below . )",
    "note that here the direction the electron will take after passing _ s _ can only be predicted in probability terms : this does not make the interphenomena anomalous , since analogous situations exist in the world of phenomena - for example , quantum phenomena too can only be predicted in probability terms .",
    "this picture is less trivial , and more relevant to the present discussion .",
    "we say that the electron is a wave - like disturbance of a medium , initiated by phenomenon @xmath1 at _ a _ this is not an anomaly : the medium has been invented for the support of interphenomena , but its ability to oscillate is normal .",
    "later the wave collapses in order to wholly pass through slit _ s _ , which is an anomaly : no such instantaneous collapse exists for real waves .",
    "then the wave propagates from _ s _ to the screen , and finally collapses again at _ b _ for the production of phenomenon @xmath2 .",
    "so the wave - like interpretation is anomalous .",
    "but this does not make it wrong . in reichenbach",
    "s theory , it is as true as the particle - like picture .",
    "such anomalies are the price one pays for demanding filling the gaps  between real events .",
    "this picture says that between phenomena @xmath1 and @xmath2 nothing happens to the electron .",
    "needless to say , it has been assumed all along that there is vacuum between the elements sketched in the figure .",
    "the @xmath0-function and the rules of quantum theory let us calculate the probability of event @xmath2 after @xmath1 has happened , but no spatial picture of inter - events is allowed .",
    "the electron has position _ a _ when @xmath1 occurs and position _ b _ when @xmath2 occurs . in between it",
    "does not have either place or shape , it has no spatiality .",
    "it is left as an exercise for the reader to make similar discussion for what is known in quantum mechanics as _ tunneling _ through a potential barrier @xcite . especially noteworthy",
    "is the fact that its particle - like interphenomena have the anomaly of energy non - conservation @xcite .",
    "reichenbach s analysis of the wave - particle dualism of quantum mechanics has the great merit of showing that these interpretations are logical constructs , neither unique nor unambiguous for a given physical situation .",
    "while in a lower level - i. e. , in the case of unobserved facts or objects - similar constructs are very convenient and adequate , because unambiguous and normal ,  they are rather restrictive of the imagination in the case of inter - events .",
    "i think it is more illuminating to discard the concept of dualism , and to recognize that there is no need to project all ideas of physical theory into space .",
    "space , or more precisely position in space , is in a sense produced by physical phenomena .",
    "the macrophysical , persistent continuity of spatial forms is an illusion analogous to many others , for example , the illusion of spatial continuity of macroscopic matter . the proper language of physics is mathematical , and in many cases mathematical statements do not allow for mapping on intuitive space .",
    "thus an electron is a linguistic entity logically similar to common sense objects [ 4 ] , but having a much poorer spatial character .",
    "of course , the language of the wave and particle pictures has heuristic value in problem solving and experiment setting .",
    "it is also a practical jargon .",
    "we may even say that these pictures have some reality .",
    "however , the actual measurements and calculations are expressed in mathematical language , and physicists move so safely in this domain that they may not see how vague are qualitative statements made in terms of the dual pictures .",
    "i can not propose that the idea of dualism be banned from physics .",
    "but i do suggest that students pay more attention to the unrealism of considering an electron as sometimes a particle and sometimes a wave .",
    "the electron is a mathematically defined thing , which has the physical attributes of form and position only intermittently : namely , when it participates in the production of a phenomenon .",
    "* acknowledgements*the author wants to express his thanks to professor p. leal ferreira , of this institute , for his critical reading of the manuscript , and to professor c. e. bures , of the california institute of technology , for his encouragement .",
    "this work was partly supported by finep ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the quantum mechanical wave - particle dualism is analyzed and criticized , in the framework of reichenbach s concepts of phenomenon and interphenomenon . </S>",
    "<S> it is suggested that the dual pictures be de - emphasized in the study of quantum theory . in this connection </S>",
    "<S> a view of the electron and other such particles as having discontinuous spatiality in time is presented and discussed . </S>"
  ]
}