{
  "article_text": [
    "although phase transitions influenced by vacuum fluctuations are theoretically predicted to play a fundamental role in cosmology there is not , at present , an experimental demonstration of such a transition , not even at the microscopic scale .",
    "furthermore , even if much progress has been made in the evaluation and experimental verification of effects produced by vacuum energy in minkowski space - time @xcite , it remains unclear why the observed universe exhibits an energy density much smaller than the one resulting from the application of quantum field theory and the equivalence principle @xcite .",
    "recently we pointed out that the sensitivity of present macroscopic small force detectors could allow , in a not too distant future , to experimentally verify the ( passive ) gravitational mass of vacuum energy , by detecting the extremely small forces exerted by the earth gravitational field on a multi - layer casimir cavity whose vacuum energy were suitably modulated @xcite .",
    "these considerations led our search for a method to modulate the casimir energy in a rigid cavity without exchanging much more energy with the system ( to avoid destroying the possibility of measuring and control ) : these conditions are satisfied if the cavity mirrors are composed by materials that can undergo a superconducting transition . in particular we showed that the use of phase transitions offers also the possibility to actually measure the energy change : for a given temperature , the external magnetic field needed to destroy superconductivity , i.e. the critical field , is in fact proportional to the total variation in free energy between the normal and superconducting state at zero field ; if the condensation energy and casimir variation are comparable , the total energy variation , and thus the critical field , of a film being part of a cavity can be sensibly different from that of a simple film @xcite .",
    "the aladin2 experiment has been conceived to verify this hypothesis , demonstrating the effect of vacuum fluctuations on a phase transition ; the study of the possibility to modulate casimir energy to verify its gravitational interaction , which was the original starting point , remains as a long - term motivation .",
    "the final measurement is foreseen for the end of 2007 .",
    "actually the cavity is placed at cryogenic temperature and an external magnetic field is applied , parallel to the plane of the films .",
    "the applied field @xmath0 necessary to destroy superconductivity is measured as a function of temperature .",
    "the expected signal is a different behavior of the function @xmath0 with respect to the critical field @xmath1 of a simple film . in this paper",
    "we report sensitivity studies on final film and cavities .",
    "the basic casimir cavity is composed by a first thin layer ( 10 nm ) of superconducting material ( al ) separated by an intermediate thin layer ( 10 nm of oxide ) from a third metallic layer ( 100 nm ) , not superconducting .",
    "the areas used are @xmath2 and @xmath3 to verify that the effect does not depend on the area .",
    "the films and cavities are obtained by depositing the al on the whole chip ( some @xmath4 ) and growing films and cavities in the same way and in the same time ( they both have a 10 nm oxide ) while the only difference is on the final layer , deposited only for the cavities .",
    "finally , the chip is divided into samples that contain both a film and a cavity that thus will experience the same field , reducing the alignment problem to a negligible contribution .",
    "the expected signal is shown in fig . 1 where the difference in transition temperature @xmath5 is reported as a function of the external magnetic field @xmath6",
    ". the upper curve refers to a simple film while the lower one to the same film being a mirror of the casimir cavity .",
    "the theoretical predictions are valid from fields higher than a certain reduced critical field @xmath7 gauss , where the casimir contribution to energy variation is simply a perturbation of condensation energy . within these approximations",
    "the two curves are expected to show a constant difference @xmath8 ( in our case @xmath9 ) , not dependent on the applied field .    in the region of field",
    "lower than @xmath10 the casimir contribution to total energy variation can not be considered a perturbation so that , strictly speaking , there is not a complete theoretical prediction and this is reported in fig . 1 ( see proceedings in nucl .",
    "instr . meth . ) with the dotted part of the lower curve .",
    "the experimental apparatus is based on the commercial cryostat oxford instruments helvltd helioxvl 3he , reaching the base temperature of 300 mk , inserted in a magnetically isolated dewar .",
    "the external field is generated by a 3.0 gauss / mampere superconducting coil and the current is supplied and measured with a sensitivity better than 1/1000 by a multimeter hp 34401a .",
    "the measurement method is a standard omodine four - wire resistance .",
    "the actual measurement is performed by fixing the external field and storing @xmath11 .",
    "a set of measurements is reported in fig . 2 ( see proceedings in nucl .",
    ". meth . ) : the transition width is approximately 50 mk .",
    "+ the results of sensitivity study are displayed in fig . 1 ( see proceedings in nucl .",
    ". meth . ) where @xmath12 is reported as a function of the reduced field .",
    "it is seen that the sensitivity @xmath13 on the single measurement is approximatively @xmath13 = 0.1 mk , which can be sufficient to perform the final measurement .",
    "+ it is very important to stress that the actual measurement is not a measurement of the absolute behavior of the field of the cavity : such a measurement would require an accuracy ( mostly on field - cavity alignment ) which would impose extremely difficult experimental constraints . instead , our measurement will be the difference of the behavior of two structures ( film and cavity ) . in fig . 1 ( see proceedings in nucl .",
    "the data are reported for the cavity case , while the final measurement simply would consist in repeating the measurement also for the film and to look for the eventual difference .",
    "thus , the results reported if fig . 1 ( see proceedings in nucl . instr",
    ". meth . ) must be regarded as sensitivity studies : if the film ( upper curve ) will show the expected 0.2 mk shift in @xmath14 , our sensitivity should be sufficient to detect it .",
    "as stated previously there is not a complete theory describing the behavior of @xmath12 for applied field h near ( or less than ) @xmath10 : nonetheless this region corresponds to the physical region where the casimir effect is predominant ( i.e. it is not a perturbation of condensation energy ) , so that it is of particular interest from an experimental point of view . in this region , instead of studying the difference @xmath15 it is better to study the first derivative @xmath16 . in the case of a simple film",
    "the derivative is a straight line in the whole region of interest , while from general arguments @xcite in the region of field @xmath17 , corresponding to transition temperatures very close to @xmath18 , also for the cavity case the derivative must be linearly dependent on @xmath6 .",
    "+ furthermore , as is already shown in fig . 1 ( see proceedings in nucl .",
    ". meth . ) , for h sufficiently high the difference of shift in temperature @xmath19 is expected to be constant ( independent of h ) , so that the two derivatives @xmath20 should converge to the same value .",
    "( we recall that the actual value of @xmath21 in our case ) .    a possible situation",
    "is reported in fig .",
    "3 ( see proceedings in nucl . instr . meth . )",
    ". whatever will be the actual curve , the relative difference of the two cases is expected to be quite high , of the order of some tens percent . indeed , this corresponds to the fact that the difference @xmath21 is expected to be reached already for @xmath22 ( where the shift in casimir energy is a tenth of the condensation energy ) where @xmath23 , respectively . from an experimental point of view this is very encouraging because , as shown in fig .",
    "3 ( see proceedings in nucl .",
    ". meth . ) , the sensitivity is far better than few percent on each point , so that we expect to have the possibility to detect the vacuum fluctuation effect with a good signal - to - noise ratio ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> aladin2 is an experiment devoted to the first measurement of variations of casimir energy in a rigid body . </S>",
    "<S> the main short term scientific motivation relies on the possibility of the first demonstration of a phase transition influenced by vacuum fluctuations while , in the long - term and in the mainframe of the cosmological constant problem , it can be regarded as the first step towards a measurement of the weight of vacuum energy . in this paper , after a presentation of the guiding principle of the measurement , the experimental apparatus and sensitivity studies on final cavities will be presented .    </S>",
    "<S> casimir energy , critical magnetic field </S>"
  ]
}