{
  "article_text": [
    "the advent of photon - based quantum cryptography , communication and computation schemes @xcite is increasing the need for light sources that produce individual photons .",
    "it is of particular importance that these single photons be produced in as controlled a manner as possible , as unwanted additional photons can render quantum cryptographic links insecure and degrade quantum computation efficiencies @xcite .",
    "the ultimate goal is to have completely characterized single photons produced on demand .",
    "more specifically , it would be very useful to have these photons created in response to an external trigger , or even to have them arrive repetitively at a fixed , but selectable rate .",
    "single photons ( or more precisely , approximations thereof ) are now commonly created via the process of parametric downconversion ( pdc ) @xcite , although attenuated lasers and quantum - dots and other single quantum site sources are also used @xcite .",
    "the pdc process employs a nonlinear optical crystal that allows individual photons from a pump laser beam to be converted into pairs of highly correlated photons . because pdc creates photons in pairs , the detection of one photon indicates , or `` heralds '' , the existence of its twin , a significant advantage over other methods ( even aside from the potential to directly produce entangled states ) .",
    "in addition , because the pdc process is governed by the constraints of phase matching , it is possible to know the output trajectory , polarization , and wavelength of that heralded photon . while pdc has a long history as a `` single photon source '' and",
    "there have been many recent improvements in efficiency@xcite , the scheme has a couple of problems .",
    "the conversion process is random , so while an output photon is heralded by its twin , there is no control or prior knowledge of when the heralding event will occur .",
    "in addition , there is a possibility of producing more than one pair at a time and because that probability increases nonlinearly with the one - photon probability , one must operate at low one - photon probabilities .",
    "so to be assured that more than one photon is not produced , one must operate where it is most likely that no photon is produced at all @xcite !",
    "the faint laser scheme suffers the same difficulty as the pdc method , in possibly producing more than one photon at a time , with the added disadvantage of not having any herald at all @xcite .",
    "quantum - dot sources offer promise as a new way of definitively producing single photons , although it remains to be seen whether their output / collection efficiencies can be made to approach unity in practice , a requirement for a true on - demand source .    to surmount the problem of random production in pdc , one uses a pulsed laser to pump the nonlinear crystal ( see for instance @xcite ) . with a pulsed source , photon pairs",
    "can only be produced at certain times ie .",
    ", during the laser pulse .",
    "unfortunately the multiple photon emission problem remains ; a high probability ( @xmath0 ) of producing a single photon pair during each pulse leads to an increased likelihood ( @xmath1 ) of producing more than one photon pair during each pulse , defeating the original goal of having a source of single photons .",
    "this problem occurs regardless of whether sources with poisson or bose - einstein statistics are used @xcite .",
    "because of this problem , pulsed systems also are usually operated with low probability of producing an output photon pair during a laser pulse ( typically @xmath2 0.1 to 0.3 ) @xcite .",
    "thus , while photons can only come during specific time windows , most of these time windows will contain no photons at all , illustrating the trade off between the two requirements of producing a photon on demand and being assured that there is , in fact , just one photon .",
    "the improvement presented here allows these two competing requirements to be adjusted independently by decoupling @xmath0 and @xmath3 .",
    "we can then select both the desired likelihood of production of a photon pair and the desired suppression of multiple pair events .",
    "this is accomplished using an array of downconverters and detectors ( fig .",
    "all of the downconverters are pumped simultaneously by the same laser pulse .",
    "the pump laser power is chosen so each downconverter has some small probability of producing a photon pair , while the number of downconverters is chosen so there is a high likelihood of at least one pair being created somewhere in the array .",
    "the detector associated with each downconverter allows us to determine which of the downconverters has fired .",
    "this information is used to control an optical switching circuit directing the other photon of the pair onto the single output channel .",
    "this arrangement allows a much truer approximation of a single photon on - demand source than is possible with other methods .",
    "the method imposes a number of requirements on the components used in a practical implementation .",
    "first , a very fast optical switch is needed , because there must be an optical delay that provides enough time to throw the appropriate switch before the photon arrives .",
    "because light travels about 0.3 m / ns in air , a switching transition time of 10 ns or better would enable a reasonably compact tabletop setup @xcite .",
    "fortunately , there exist electro - optic switches , such as those based on kdp and linbo@xmath4 that are capable of switching in just a few ns .",
    "( the delay time between an electrical input trigger pulse and the optical switching transition should also be of this order .",
    "this may be a more difficult , but not impossible , requirement to satisfy . )",
    "these are binary switches ( 1 input  2 outputs ) that work by controlled rotation of the polarization of the light followed by a polarizing beam splitter .",
    "thus , to set up a circuit to take , for example , 8 input lines and allow one to be selectively switched to the output line would require a circuit path 3 binary switches deep . of course , the laser pulse duration must be shorter than the timing resolution of the system .",
    "in addition to fast switch times , it is important that the overall optical losses be low , so that there is a low probability of losing that heralded photon before it can exit the apparatus ; otherwise we would be back to the original problem of not being sure that we will get a photon .",
    "the losses in a system built of discrete components would include absorptance and reflectance losses for each component .",
    "all of the components that would be used in this system are existing devices that can be made with low absorptance losses ( @xmath5 0.01 % ) and antireflection ( ar ) coatings ( @xmath6 0.5 % ) .",
    "a typical system would consist of a downconversion crystal ( 1 ar surface ) , a delay ( 0 or 2 ar surfaces and 0 or 2 mirror surfaces ) , and an 8-to-1 switch circuit ( 4 ar surfaces per 2-to-1 switch ) , so that the loss for a complete system would have less than 15 ar coated surfaces with a total net loss less than 1 - 0.995@xmath7= 7.2 % , allowing conservatively a 92.8 % probability of emitting the heralded photon .",
    "in addition to a single photon on demand system made of discrete components , it is also of obvious interest to produce a system made of integrated components .",
    "while it is likely that such a system would not achieve as low a loss as a discrete component arrangement , a useable system should be possible , although an engineering effort would be needed to determine the ultimate limit .",
    "a simple extension of this arrangement can produce a regularly spaced series of single photons . by ganging up a series of these `` single photon on demand setups '' with additional optical switches and a series of optical delays , it is possible to produce an arbitrary length train of single photons .",
    "a somewhat more efficient version of this last scheme could be implemented by using the array of downconverters and detectors as a single large pool of photon sources , instead of breaking them up into subgroups . in this arrangement ,",
    "detectors that fire indicate which of the many downconverters have produced photon pairs .",
    "this information is sent to a central control circuit for the optical switches that then sequences the incoming single photons to produce the requested output pulse train . by producing a pulse train long enough to last until the next pump laser pulse arrives",
    ", one can create a continuous train of single - photon pulses synchronized with an external signal .",
    "these basic concepts could be used to produce higher order photon number states as well . by using detectors with the capability of sensing the number of photons in a single pulse ,",
    "the switching circuit could just as well direct the outputs of those converters that produced multiple photon pairs to the output channel .",
    "that would result in an output pulse train with each pulse containing the desired number of photons .",
    "general schematic for single photon source showing array of crystal downconverters each with the potential of producing a pair or pairs of photons .",
    "the each downconverter is shown with its own trigger detector .",
    "the information about which trigger detectors have fired is sent to the optical switching circuit to control which incoming lines are directed to the output line . input line delays to allow the trigger information to arrive before the incoming photons are not shown . ]",
    "a. ) single crystal implementation of scheme",
    ". b. ) single detector implementation of scheme .",
    "sequential series of delay lines is seen leading to the trigger detector .",
    "c. ) implementation without the optical switching circuit .",
    "a lens is used to collect all the modes correlated to those seen by the trigger . ]",
    "while the scheme just described is conceptually the simplest way of presenting the method , there are a number of modifications that can improve the efficiency , construction , and convenience of the system .",
    "the first of these is that the array of downconverters can be implemented with a single pdc crystal .",
    "this is possible because while phasematching requires a pdc photon pair to be constrained to a plane containing the pump beam , the azimuthal angle of that plane is not constrained .",
    "thus , the pdc process produces light distributed azimuthally around the pump laser direction ( for type i phasematching ) .",
    "so , each azimuthal plane can be thought of as a separate downconverter .",
    "thus the multiple pdc setup is achieved by placing many detectors azimuthally in an annular pattern around the pump direction of a single downconverter and collecting at the correlated positions ( fig .",
    "[ fig2]a ) .",
    "a second modification allows the array of detectors to be replaced by a single detector . by sending each of the potential herald photons to an increasing sequence of delays and then directing the delay outputs to a single detector ,",
    "the timing of the detector pulse indicates which of the input downconverters has created a pair ( fig .",
    "[ fig2]b ) . of course",
    ", several of the downconverters may produce a photon pair , but only the first photon herald reaching the detector and causing it to fire is recorded .",
    "detector deadtime causes subsequent photons to be ignored .",
    "the timing of the detector pulse is used to select which correlated photon channel to direct to the output of system .    a third implementation ( fig .",
    "[ fig2]c ) even eliminates the output switching network circuit , while still maintaining a significant advantage over both the conventional pdc and faint laser photon sources .",
    "the output photons are simply collected with a single lens output port .",
    "this most basic implementation allows production of pulses with individual certainties of that pulse containing exactly one photon .",
    "in other words , this source provides single photons and a  certificate \" tied to each output photon quantifying the likelihood that just one photon was emitted . some of these pulses can achieve a significantly higher single photon certainty than is possible with the conventional single photon source setups .",
    "this more complete characterization of the emitted pulse and its tighter constraints on @xmath3 , will allow more efficient use of the emitted light .",
    "this reduces the need for overhead tasks such as privacy amplification @xcite .",
    "the basic reason that this arrangement can produce single photons with lower probability of multiple photons is that the delay system provides extra information about the photons produced .",
    "for instance , in the cases where one of the longer delays happened to cause the detector to fire , we know that all the prior delays did not cause the detector to fire .",
    "if the detection quantum efficiency is high , it is very likely that there were no photons in those modes coupled to those shorter paths .",
    "thus @xmath3 is greatly reduced because it is just the multiphoton probability for only the last delay , rather than for all @xmath8 of them , which has a mean photon number of @xmath9 vs. @xmath10 .",
    "we now quantify the advantage of this last and simplest scheme .",
    "we will see this scheme results in production of photon pulses where each pulse has its own individualized single photon certification , and as expected , these certifications can be significantly better than the uniform result obtained from the conventional arrangement . to begin , we consider the standard pdc setup for producing heralded single photons .",
    "the trigger detector registers one photon of a pair and indicates the existence of the second photon exiting the correlated channel .",
    "the collection optics for that correlated channel are designed to collect , as close as can be approximated , just the photons correlated to those seen by the trigger detector . in this arrangement ,",
    "both the trigger channel and output channel are set up to collect only one mode of the field @xcite . when the trigger detector fires , one photon has been received ( assuming negligible dark counts ) , but we do not know if additional photons were also present as the considered detectors can not distinguish a one - photon from a multi - photon event .",
    "given that the trigger detector has fired , the probability that there were @xmath11 photons incident is : @xmath12 note that @xmath13 is the probability of the detector firing for @xmath11 photons incident and detector quantum efficiency , @xmath14 defined as the probability of the detector firing when just one photon is incident .",
    "we use bose - einstein statistics for the probability , @xmath15 , of having @xmath11 photons emitted into a single mode of the pdc light , given @xmath9 @xcite .",
    "the denominator of eq .",
    "( [ 1 ] ) normalizes the distribution . note that it does not matter whether the summation includes @xmath16=@xmath17 or not , as the probability of firing is zero if no photons are incident .",
    "we will also need the probability that there were one or more photons incident if the detector did not fire .",
    "this function is given by slight modifications of eq .",
    "( [ 1 ] ) , @xmath18 where @xmath19 is the probability of the detector not firing if @xmath20 photons are incident and the numerator is the sum over all the ways for the detector to not fire when photons are incident . in the denominator , which is the total probability of not firing , we now include @xmath20=@xmath17 , because that term represents a legitimate way for the detector not fire . with this basis",
    ", we now describe a system with a number of delay lines of increasing length placed between the pdc crystal and the trigger detector .",
    "each of these delay line channels intercepts a single , but separate , mode of the field .",
    "the output channel collection optic is also modified to include the extra modes correlated to those of the additional trigger modes .",
    "each of these trigger paths has a chance to cause the trigger detector to fire , with the shortest path providing the first chance , and the next longer path providing the next chance , and so on .",
    "but once the trigger detector fires due to a photon in a particular path , it can not fire due to subsequent photons in the longer delay paths .",
    "the timing of the trigger detector firing relative to the pump pulse tells which delay path caused the firing .",
    "thus the result of a single pulse of the pump laser is that either no trigger was produced or a trigger was produced and we know which delay path produced it .",
    "this last piece of information allows us to make a better determination of the probability that the photon produced was a single photon .",
    "if the photon that causes the trigger to fire is one of the later delay paths , we will have a much lower likelihood of there being more than one photon .",
    "we now calculate this likelihood as a function of which delay path caused the firing .",
    "suppose we have a system of @xmath21 delay paths and we have determined that the @xmath22 delay path caused the firing .",
    "we then obviously know that all the previous delay paths did not cause the detector to fire , so the probability that only one photon was incident into the entire system of delay paths is given by @xmath23 where @xmath24 is the probability that photons were incident if the detector did not fire .",
    "the first factor is the probability that all delays prior to the @xmath22 delay did not fire due there being no photons in those paths .",
    "the second factor is the probability that the @xmath22 delay that caused the firing contained exactly one photon .",
    "the last term is the probability that all the subsequent delay paths contained no photons .",
    "note that @xmath9 is the mean photon rate for the overall system , so the rate for a single mode is @xmath25 .",
    "then we use eq .",
    "( [ 1 ] ) with @xmath11=1 for a bose - einstein distribution in each of the modes collected of fig .  [ 2]c .",
    "we need to calculate not only the probability of a single photon when delay @xmath16 causes the trigger to fire , but also the likelihood of that event occurring .",
    "this calculation is needed to verify that while a particular result may give a high probability of being a single photon , the probability of having that result is not impractically small .",
    "this probability of a particular delay causing the trigger to fire is given by @xmath26 here the first factor is the probability of that all the paths prior to @xmath22 delay did not fire and the second factor is the probability that the @xmath22 delay did fire ( written as 1 minus the probability that the @xmath22 delay did not fire ) .",
    "also , we must include the possibility that no photon was detected via any delay path , i.e. that the trigger did not fire at all .",
    "the likelihood of this occurring is given by @xmath27 we can now substitute the bose - einstein distribution @xmath28 into the above equations and simplify .",
    "( [ 3 ] ) becomes @xmath29 and the probability of a particular delay causing the trigger to fire becomes @xmath30 while @xmath31    figure ( [ 3]a ) shows the functional form of these probabilities ( of eq .",
    "( [ 6 ] ) ) , where each line of the fan shaped family of curves represents a system of @xmath21 delays .",
    "( figure [ 3]b showing the probability of a single delay event occuring is discussed later . )",
    "each point on a given line corresponds to the trigger firing at a particular @xmath22 delay out of a set of @xmath21 .",
    "the point s value is the `` single photon certification '' - the probability that this event indicates that exactly one photon pair exists in the system ( one photon in the trigger channel and one in the output channel ) .",
    "it can be seen that for @xmath21 of more than a few , and with high @xmath14 , we can have emission events with single photon probabilities around 90% , greatly exceeding the conventional arrangement results for the same @xmath14 and @xmath9 .",
    "the conventional result is represented by the single @xmath21 = 1 point ( i.e. the standard pdc setup with one trigger path ) .     a ) plot of single photon `` certifications , '' @xmath32 as a function of the @xmath22 delay firing .",
    "the fan of curves labeled 1 - 8 are the probabilities of exactly one photon being produced given that the @xmath22 delay , in a system of @xmath21 , caused the trigger to fire for @xmath14,@xmath9=1 .",
    "the lowest curve is the total probability for a system of @xmath21 delays to produce a single photon per pump pulse with the poisson limit shown just above .",
    "the dashed curve above the poisson limit is the probability that the emitted light is a single photon given that the trigger did fire .",
    "( for these last 3 curves , the @xmath33-axis is @xmath21 rather than triggered delay . )",
    "b ) probability of that the @xmath22 delay will cause the trigger to fire . ]",
    "we have calculated two additional probabilities : the overall probability of producing a single photon ( eq .  ( [ 9 ] ) ) , and that same probability given that the trigger did fire ( eq .",
    "( [ 10 ] ) ) .",
    "the first is obtained by taking the product of the probability of a particular delay event being due to a single photon and the probability of that event occurring , and then summing over all possible types of events ( @xmath16=1,2 , ... @xmath21 ) .",
    "added to this is the probability for the case where no delays fire ( so no heralding is present ) , but there is still a single photon ( undetected ) in one delay line : @xmath34 the second probability is obtained by eliminating the case where the trigger did @xmath35 fire and renormalizing : @xmath36 via some algebra we obtain : @xmath37 and @xmath38 for a bose - einstein distribution in each of the modes collected in fig . 2c .",
    "these two results are also shown on fig 3a for @xmath14=1 .",
    "( note , @xmath39 is independent of @xmath14 in eq .",
    "( [ 11 ] ) , a reflection of the fact that it does not involve the herald , or trigger , detector . ) for these curves , the abscissa is @xmath21 rather than delay @xmath16 .",
    "it is also instructive to calculate the probabilities in eqs .",
    "( 9 ) and ( 10 ) assuming the heralded photons follow a poisson , rather than bose - einstein , distribution in each mode .",
    "then eq .",
    "( [ 9 ] ) simply returns the poisson probability of exactly one photon ( the poisson limit ) : @xmath40 while eq .",
    "( [ 10 ] ) becomes : @xmath41 these are independent of @xmath21 , as one would expect , because a collection of poisson subsystems taken together yields a result with poisson statistics for the entire system .",
    "matrix of graphs single photon probabilities similar to fig 3a for a range of values of @xmath9 and @xmath14 .",
    "the columns correspond to @xmath14 s of 0.5 , 0.75 , and 1 from left to right , while the rows correspond to @xmath9 s of 2 , 1 , 0.5 , 0.25 from top to bottom . ]    for large @xmath21 , the probabilities of eqs .",
    "( [ 11 ] ) and ( [ 12 ] ) , calculated for a thermal source , approach the results that would be obtained for poisson - distributed photons as given by eqs .",
    "( [ 13 ] ) and ( [ 14 ] ) . in particular , the unheralded single - photon probability @xmath42 asymptotically approaches the poisson limit of eq .",
    "( [ 13 ] ) for @xmath43 , as seen in fig .",
    "this tending of a collection of many single - mode bose - einstein subsystems toward the poisson result is also expected , in that the more independent subsystems are included in the sum , the more the individual events in the system are independent of each other , which is the definition of poisson statistics .",
    "the higher values of @xmath44 seen in fig .",
    "3a indicate the advantage of heralded bose - einstein - distributed photons over those from a faint laser , whose single - photon probability is given by the poisson limit",
    ". an even bigger advantage would occur if it were possible to have heralded , poisson - distributed photons : the above analysis yields qualitatively the same shaped curves for the single - photon certifications @xmath32 as in fig .",
    "3a , but with even higher probability values in that case .",
    "as previously mentioned , we must also verify that the events with high single photon probabilities or  certifications \" have reasonable likelihoods of occurring . fig . [ fig3]b shows the probabilities of occurrence for each type of event shown in fig . [ fig3]a .",
    "( for comparison we have included the probability of the trigger detector not firing due to any of the delay channels .",
    "these are the points plotted at delay=0 . ) while the likelihood of the later delay events occurring is lower than the earlier delay events , the dependence is not particularly strong .",
    "for instance in the @xmath21=8 , @xmath9=1 case the falloff from delay-1 events to delay-8 events is only a factor of about 2 .",
    "figure [ fig4 ] is a matrix of graphs similar to fig .",
    "[ 3]a for a range of values of @xmath9 and @xmath14 .",
    "looking from left to right , we see that as @xmath14 approaches unity , we achieve the best single photon certifications .",
    "this is because a high @xmath14 means that the system will provide more complete information about what has happened .",
    "for example with a high @xmath14 , an instance of the trigger not firing means with high certainty that no photon was incident , while a low @xmath14 decreases our certainty of that event . highlighting the advantage of this method , fig .",
    "4 also shows that in almost all cases , the multiplexed heralded system presented in this paper significantly surpasses the single photon probability of a faint laser as described by the poisson limit . for each value of @xmath9",
    "this limit is indicated on the figure by the level of the asymptote to the @xmath42 curve .",
    "figure [ fig4 ] also shows that increasing @xmath9 , increases the spread of the certifications , while decreasing the maximum single photon certification possible .",
    "so we can see that there is a trade off between having high certainty single photons and overall single photon rate .",
    "in fact , @xmath42 does not continue increasing with increasing @xmath9 .",
    "this is clearly seen in fig .",
    "[ 5 ] , which shows @xmath42 for systems with varying @xmath21 , as a function of the mean overall rate of photon generation per pulse",
    ". the maximum occurs for all systems at @xmath9=1 .",
    "this is the balancing point between a low photon rate that reduces the number of single photon events and a high photon rate that increases the number of multiple photon events .",
    "this tells us the best rate to operate the system to maximize single photon events , although it will not necessarily provide the highest single photon certainties .",
    "but we can still achieve higher single photon certifications than is possible conventionally , while maximizing single photon rates .",
    "total probability of producing a single photon vs. mean overall rate of photon generation per pulse for systems with @xmath21 from 1 to 8 with @xmath14=1 . ]    for comparision of the pulsed `` single photon '' systems using a faint laser , conventional pdc source , and our multiplexed pdc source , we calculate the overall single photon production probability . for a faint laser ,",
    "the maximum possible fraction of single photon events is 37% . for a conventional pdc source",
    ", the single - photon fraction is limited to only 25% because the bose - einstein statistics encourage bunched photons ; however because the pdc source provides a herald , the no - photon emission event can be eliminated bringing the single photon fraction up to 50% .",
    "then , using the full multiplexed pdc setup presented here , fractions much closer to 100% can be achieved , while even the simplest multiplexed version of fig .",
    "2c allows a single photon fraction of 57% ( for the case @xmath45 , @xmath9=1 , @xmath14=1 ) .",
    "we have shown a way to decouple the probabilities of producing a single photon and the probability of producing more than one photon , using an array of parametric downconverters . by doing so",
    ", we can construct a better approximation of a true single photon on - demand source than is possible using a conventional single pdc setup or a faint laser source @xcite . in principle",
    "this method could achieve an arbitrarily close approximation of a single photon on demand source .",
    "we have also analyzed a version that , while greatly simplifying the construction of an actual device , retains a significant amount of the benefit of the original concept .",
    "the setup would produce single photons with individual certifications that the photons produced are actually the desired single photons .",
    "such a better - defined single photon source will allow for better use of quantum channel resources in a cryptographic system by reducing the need for overhead tasks such as privacy amplification , as well as having implications for the field of quantum computation .",
    "as photon counting becomes more convenient at telecom wavelengths , we expect that integrated all solid state implementations of these schemes will be made even easier , and we will have truly achieved the dream of a convenient source of single photons on demand .",
    "we are currently working on experimental implementations .      c.  bennett and g.  brassard , ``",
    "quantum cryptography : public key distribution and coin tossing , '' in _ proceedings of the ieee international conference on computers , systems and signal processing _ , p.  175",
    ", 1984 .",
    "d.  s. naik , c.  g. peterson , a.  g. white , a.  j. berglund , and p.  g. kwiat , `` entangled state quantum cryptography : eavesdropping on the ekert protocol , '' _ physical review letters _ * 84*(20 ) , pp .",
    "47334736 , 2000 .",
    "w.  t. buttler , r.  j. hughes , p.  g. kwiat , s.  k. lamoreaux , g.  g. luther , g.  l. morgan , j.  e. nordholt , c.  g. peterson , and c.  m. simmons , `` practical free - space quantum key distribution over 1 km , '' _ physical review letters _ * 81*(15 ) , pp .  32833286 , 1998 .",
    "w.  t. buttler , r.  j. hughes , s.  k. lamoreaux , g.  l. morgan , j.  e. nordholt , and c.  g. peterson , `` daylight quantum key distribution over 1.6 km , '' _ physical review letters _ * 84*(24 ) , pp .  56525655 , 2000 .",
    "p.  michler , a.  imamoglu , m.  d. mason , p.  j. carson , g.  f. strouse , and s.  k. buratto , `` quantum correlation among photons from a single quantum dot at room temperature , '' _ nature _ * 406 * , pp .  968970 , 2000 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> as currently implemented , single - photon sources can not be made to produce single photons with high probability , while simultaneously suppressing the probability of yielding two or more photons . </S>",
    "<S> because of this , single photon sources can not really produce single photons on demand . </S>",
    "<S> we describe a multiplexed system that allows the probabilities of producing one and more photons to be adjusted independently , enabling a much better approximation of a source of single photons on demand . </S>",
    "<S> the scheme uses a heralded photon source based on parametric downconversion , but by effectively breaking the trigger detector area into multiple regions , we are able to extract more information about a heralded photon than is possible with a conventional arrangement . </S>",
    "<S> this scheme allows photons to be produced along with a quantitative `` certification '' that they are single photons </S>",
    "<S> . some of the single - photon certifications can be significantly better than what is possible with conventional downconversion sources ( using a unified trigger detector region ) , as well as being better than faint laser sources . </S>",
    "<S> with such a source of more tightly certified single photons , it should be possible to improve the maximum secure bit rate possible over a quantum cryptographic link . </S>",
    "<S> we present an analysis of the relative merits of this method over the conventional arrangement . </S>"
  ]
}