{
  "article_text": [
    "recent progress in quantum engineering with neutral atoms crucially depends on the ability to tailor sophisticated potentials for manipulating the atoms .",
    "for instance , the implementation of a strongly confining three - dimensional optical lattice potential in a bose - einstein condensate ( bec ) apparatus lead to the observation of the mott ",
    "insulator state  @xcite .",
    "neutral - atom quantum information processors and guided - wave interferometers will require even more complex potentials .",
    "thus , for example , a qubit conveyor belt has been envisioned @xcite to transport qubit atoms to the computation area without affecting the qubit state .",
    "guided - wave interferometers will need continuous atom lasers @xcite as a source , and require highly stable , coherent beam splitters  currently a subject of active research in the field of microchip - based atom traps ( `` atom chips '' ) .",
    "indeed , atom chips are particularly well suited for this kind of complex atom manipulation , since highly complex trapping potentials can be created with lithographically produced conductors on a chip @xcite .",
    "as in microelectronics , complex features may be obtained from simpler building blocks .",
    "a few such building blocks have been demonstrated and described in the last four years , such as on - chip bec sources  @xcite , conveyor belts for ultracold atoms  @xcite and becs  @xcite , guides  @xcite , y - shaped connections  @xcite and a switch for ultracold atoms  @xcite and also bec guides @xcite . here",
    "we describe the use of time - dependent magnetic trapping potentials to achieve the following functions :    1 .",
    "_ nanopositioning _ of atoms with a resolution of two nanometers",
    ". taking our atomic conveyor belt @xcite as a starting point , we use numerical optimization of the time - dependent currents to achieve transport of a strongly confining trap with minimum deviation from a straight line , so that a bec can be transported and accurately positioned with this conveyor belt .",
    "a detailed analysis of positioning errors complements the experimental results .",
    "splitting _ of atom clouds and becs by reversible transformation between single and double - well potentials .",
    "we demonstrate splitting and merging of thermal clouds , and splitting of a bec . this first demonstration of on - chip splitting of a three - dimensionally trapped bec provides important experimental input for the realization of trapped - atom interferometers  @xcite and for collisional phase gates  @xcite .",
    "cold atom dispensing _ , i.e. extraction of a small quantity of trapped atoms from a larger reservoir .",
    "we show how this function can be combined with the conveyor belt to transport the dispensed atom cloud from the reservoir to a destination elsewhere on the chip .",
    "finally , we discuss the use of this device to pump a continuous atom laser .",
    "our general setup and initial chip trap loading procedure are detailed in  @xcite and summarized below . all experiments described here",
    "have been performed with the same chip . for each experiment ,",
    "the atoms have been loaded from a mirror - mot  @xcite , which involves a reflective layer on top of the lithographic wires . for the various experiments ,",
    "different loading regions have been used , as described later in this section .",
    "the trapping potential is generated by superimposing a homogeneous external magnetic field with the magnetic field created by the current carrying wires on the chip .",
    "depending on the wire geometry , both quadrupole and ioffe - pritchard traps can be created ( for an overview see  @xcite ) .",
    "the current carrying wires are lithographically produced gold conductors on an aluminum nitride ceramic chip ( ) . this chip is mounted upside down in a glass cell , which is evacuated to a base pressure in the @xmath0hpa range .",
    "we typically capture @xmath1 @xmath2rb  atoms close to the chip surface in the mirror - mot , perform a 3ms - stage of polarization gradient cooling and optically pump the atoms into the doubly - polarized state @xmath3 within 1ms . from here , we use two different procedures to load the atoms into the magnetic trap , depending on whether we want to cool the atoms evaporatively in the magnetic trap or not .",
    "a detailed description of the two final loading steps will be given in the next two subsections .",
    "our chip , depicted in , consists of two main sections . in the left section",
    ", the currents @xmath4 and @xmath5 can be used to create a large - volume quadrupole and ioffe - pritchard trap , respectively . in the right section with the meandering currents @xmath6 and @xmath7 , moving potential wells can be created to transport the trapped atoms .",
    "the two straight wires h@xmath8 and h@xmath9 to the left and to the right of the conveyor section can be used to create stationary magnetic traps and barriers .      for applications which require very cold or even bose condensed atoms ,",
    "a trap with a large initial volume is necessary , since typically @xmath10 of the atoms are lost in the course of evaporative cooling to bec .",
    "we use a current @xmath4 in the u - shaped wire together with the offset field @xmath11 to create and compress a mirror - mot of large volume ( see ) .",
    "after polarization gradient cooling and optical pumping , an elongated ioffe - pritchard trap is created with @xmath12a and a bias field @xmath13 g . in this trap , we capture up to @xmath14 atoms at a typical temperature of 45@xmath15k .",
    "if lower temperatures are required , we perform radio - frequency induced evaporative cooling  @xcite . to achieve a high elastic collision rate ,",
    "we compress the trap by ramping @xmath11 to 55 g within 300ms .",
    "we then relax the trap by reducing the offset field to 40 g and , if needed , perform a second stage of evaporative cooling .",
    "describes the steps that transfer the atoms from this trap into the conveyor .",
    "alternatively , atoms can be loaded directly into the conveyor potential . in this case",
    ", quadrupole fields for the last mot stage are created below the meandering wires as shown in .",
    "after polarization gradient cooling and optical pumping , the magnetic conveyor is switched on as detailed in the figure caption .",
    "the volume of these traps is comparatively small , such that loading at typical mot densities limits the atom number to a few @xmath16 per well .",
    "temperatures of 10 to 50@xmath17k and densities on the order of @xmath18 are obtained in this way .",
    "the atomic conveyor belt was proposed in  @xcite and first demonstrated in  @xcite . in its simplest implementation",
    ", sinusoidally modulated currents are used to displace the ` bins ' containing the atoms . in this case , the bins follow an overall straight path with a superimposed periodic deviation , as described in  @xcite . here we show how numerical optimization of the modulated currents and bias fields can be used to reduce the periodic deviation , such that ideal linear transport is approximated with micrometric accuracy .",
    "this optimization was crucial to achieve the goal of non - destructive bec transport  @xcite .",
    "the conveyor belt consists of two main components ( ) .",
    "a 2d - ioffe - pritchard potential is created by the current @xmath19a and an external bias field @xmath20 g .",
    "this potential traps the atoms in the @xmath21-@xmath22  plane .",
    "the confinement along @xmath23 is accomplished by the meandering currents @xmath6 and @xmath7 and an external bias field @xmath24 g .",
    "the resulting potential consists of a chain of minima as shown in . when the currents are modulated according to @xmath25 these minima move continuously to the right with increasing phase angle @xmath26 in the experiment of , @xmath27 is varied linearly with time , @xmath28 with @xmath29ms .",
    "we call this mode of operation the `` basic conveyor belt '' . given the spatial period of @xmath30 m , the atoms are transported at a velocity of @xmath31mm / s and traverse the full conveyor length of @xmath32 mm within 863ms . at this velocity",
    ", we do not observe losses due to the transport , and the heating is below our temperature resolution of @xmath33k .    however , if we increase the transport velocity to more than @xmath34 , the atom cloud is measurably heated ( ) .",
    "two effects contribute to this heating : first , deviations of the trap position from the ideal straight line cause small periodic accelerations .",
    "second , shape and steepness of the trap also vary periodically . both heating effects can be reduced , or even completely avoided , by optimizing the time dependence of the various currents and bias fields .",
    "this is demonstrated in the next two subsections .      in the basic version of the conveyor",
    "discussed above , one obvious deviation from the ideal linear transport is the variation in height .",
    "the experiments and simulations in the upper row of show that the excursions are of the order of @xmath35 m .",
    "this effect can be understood from : once per period , the potential minima pass through a position where both meandering wires are close to the central wire .",
    "this happens for @xmath36 , when both currents @xmath6 and @xmath7 are running antiparallel to the main current @xmath37 .",
    "the atoms then feel a smaller effective current @xmath38 along @xmath23 . since the trap - surface distance is proportional to @xmath39 the atoms move closer to the wire at these positions .",
    "this vertical excursion can be avoided if the central current @xmath37 and/or the field @xmath11 are adjusted appropriately .    for our experiments",
    ", we have chosen to keep @xmath11 constant and to vary @xmath37 .",
    "a numerical optimization of @xmath40 has been used to keep the height of one particular well constant during one shifting period .",
    "the resulting current is plotted in  ( a ) .",
    "the experimental results ( b ) show that the height is indeed constant to @xmath41 m , even over the whole conveyor length .    despite this optimization of the height ,",
    "the heating rate at high transport velocities is only slightly reduced ( ) . this is due to the fact that the deviation in the @xmath21-direction has been left uncompensated . furthermore , as mentioned above , the shape of the trapping potential changes significantly during the transport .",
    "this also appears in the variation of the axial and transverse trapping frequencies , @xmath42 and @xmath43 , which characterize the potential at the bottom of the trap .",
    "for very cold ensembles of atoms , the conveyor can be further optimized , as described in the next subsection .",
    "when the atom cloud is so cold that it remains within the parabolic region of the potential , the task to keep the potential shape constant reduces to keeping the three trap frequencies constant .",
    "the two transverse frequencies are very similar and are mainly given by the 2d - ioffe - pritchard potential .",
    "therefore , we can influence them by changing the current @xmath37 and the offset fields @xmath44 and @xmath11 .",
    "the axial frequency is due to the meandering currents @xmath6 and @xmath7 and can be adjusted by changing the amplitude of the currents . in a final step ,",
    "we take into account that the trap position along @xmath23 is not an exactly linear function of @xmath27 .    for every @xmath23",
    ", we have numerically calculated appropriate values of @xmath45 to obtain a trap at position @xmath23 , @xmath46 m with frequencies @xmath47hz and @xmath48hz .",
    "@xmath49 is coupled to @xmath50 and varies between 378 and 393hz over the full range of @xmath23 values .",
    "@xmath21 was not taken into account in the optimization because we can not modulate @xmath51 in our current setup .    with this optimization",
    ", we were able to transport a bose - einstein condensate  over a distance of @xmath52 mm within 100ms , i.e. at @xmath53s ( ) . to avoid sloshing of the condensate , we accelerated and decelerated the conveyor using a blackman pulse in the velocity  @xcite : @xmath54\\ ] ] with @xmath55ms .      an important application for the atomic conveyor belt",
    "is precise positioning of an atom ( cloud ) inside an optical resonator . for cavity - qed experiments , the atom - field coupling crucially",
    "depends on the overlap between the atomic wavefunction and the cavity mode . for these experiments as well as for scanning atomic microscopy  @xcite , positioning",
    "accuracy of the trap center is essential .",
    "it is interesting to evaluate the position accuracy for a chip trap under realistic experimental conditions , i.e. in the presence of fluctuating fields , field gradients and currents . as a realistic example",
    ", we consider a trap with the highest transverse trapping frequency that we have achieved in our setup , which is 11khz .",
    "( much higher frequencies are possible with straightforward technical improvements  see e.g.  @xcite . )",
    "the parameters for this trap are @xmath56a , @xmath57a and @xmath58 g ; the trap is located @xmath59 m from the chip surface . the transverse ground state extension ( @xmath60 radius ) in this trap is 100 nm .",
    "the axial trapping frequency and the axial ground state extension are 730hz and 400 nm , respectively .",
    "if we assume a relative current stability of @xmath61 in all current sources that are used to create the trapping fields , a simulation yields a position jitter of @xmath62 nm .",
    "furthermore , the trap position is sensitive to fluctuating ambient magnetic fields in the @xmath63-plane and to the component @xmath64 of an ambient magnetic field gradient .",
    "their contribution to the displacement amounts to @xmath65 and @xmath66 .",
    "ambient field stabilities of @xmath67 and @xmath68 can be reached with relatively small effort ( in atomic fountain clocks , residual field fluctuations and gradients are several orders of magnitude smaller than this @xcite ) .",
    "therefore , an overall positioning accuracy of a few nm is certainly realistic .",
    "this is almost two orders of magnitude smaller than the trap s ground state extension and more than two orders of magnitude smaller than the main optical transition wavelengths for rb ( @xmath69 nm and 795 nm ) .",
    "thus , the assumed stability certainly suffices for applications which require a position accuracy in the @xmath70 range .",
    "note that the position jitter from current fluctuations only affects the @xmath22 coordinate . for external field fluctuations below 0.2 , this is the main contribution to the overall position jitter  the position in the @xmath71-plane is as stable as @xmath72 nm and @xmath73 nm .      with this optimization , the conveyor belt can now be used for ultraprecise positioning of becs and single atoms .",
    "this is closely related to the nanopositioning of single trapped ions that was used to map out the light field distribution in an optical cavity @xcite .",
    "indeed , we are currently using a two - layer variant of the conveyor belt @xcite to position atoms in the evanescent optical field of a microsphere resonator for single - atom detection  @xcite .",
    "a double well potential with adjustable barrier height is the central building block for the proposed chip - based collisional phase gate @xcite and trapped - atom interferometer @xcite , but also for a magnetic technique @xcite to continuously pump an atom laser by replenishing its atom reservoir @xcite , and for josephson - type effects with becs @xcite .    below we demonstrate two different current configurations that generate adjustable magnetic double wells .",
    "we use the first configuration to split and reunite a thermal cloud . by measuring the temperature after up to five iterations of this process",
    ", we show that it is adiabatic to very good approximation . with the second configuration , we split a bec as was first done with optical fields in @xcite .",
    "although the well spacing in our implementation is still too large to observe interference fringes , this first on - chip bec splitting provides important experimental input for future atom chip implementations of the phase gate and trapped - atom interferometer mentioned above .",
    "we first demonstrate the splitting and merging process with a thermal cloud positioned at the right end of the conveyor belt ( ) . with the help of a time - dependent current in the additional wire h2 , a stationary minimum is produced below that wire . incoming minima from the left",
    "are merged with the stationary one if the current in h2 is driven according to @xmath74a .",
    "all other parameters are controlled as described in  .",
    "the process was designed such that the left and the right wells have equal phase space volumes during the merging process . reversing",
    "this process leads to the splitting of the trap . in  ( b )",
    "the temperature of the merged cloud is plotted against the number of splitting and merging cycles .",
    "the temperature is essentially constant , indicating the adiabaticity of the process .",
    "the slight temperature increase presumably originates from a slight asymmetry in the splitting ( @xmath75 ) .",
    "we attribute this asymmetry to an external field gradient along @xmath23 .",
    "fields on the conveyor chip can also be used to split a bose - einstein condensate .",
    "the atoms are transported to the position on the belt defined by @xmath76 ( i.e. , close to position 3 in ) . at this position",
    ", the single trap can be transformed into two traps by decreasing the trap  surface distance ( ) .",
    "simulations predict a symmetric splitting for @xmath77ma and @xmath78ma . in the experiment we found that the trap splits symmetrically with @xmath79ma and @xmath80ma . again , this deviation presumably results from an external magnetic field gradient . with a constant external field",
    "@xmath81 g we split the initial single trap in two by decreasing the current @xmath37 from @xmath82a to @xmath83a within 50ms .",
    "after splitting , the distance between trap centers is @xmath84 m and the barrier height is @xmath85 , corresponding to @xmath86 in our case .",
    "each trap has a mean frequency @xmath87hz . for 1000 @xmath2rb atoms in each trap ,",
    "the chemical potential is @xmath88 in this configuration , tunnelling does not occur on relevant timescales .",
    "( b ) shows 10 realizations of this experiment with identical parameters .",
    "these results show that symmetric splitting can be achieved on the chip ; however , improved control over currents and external fields will be needed to obtain a reproducible splitting ratio .",
    "also , in some images fringes are visible",
    ". these may originate from excitations or from phase fluctuations that occur just before splitting in the very elongated trap ( cf .",
    "@xcite ) . using a",
    "more symmetric wire pattern @xcite and magnetic shielding will lead to the improved stability that is a prerequisite for integrated atom interferometry and quantum information applications .",
    "[ sec : dispenser ] it is a specific advantage of the chip technology that complex devices can be obtained by combining simpler building blocks . here",
    "we demonstrate a `` cold atom dispenser '' that combines the splitting , transport and merging functions described above .",
    "this device may enable the construction of a continuous atom laser  @xcite by purely micromagnetic means .",
    "the dispenser is fed from a reservoir of trapped atoms to the left of the conveyor belt .",
    "this reservoir is produced by @xmath89a , @xmath90a , @xmath91 g and @xmath92a ( ) ; the role of @xmath93 is to create an adjustable barrier between the reservoir and the conveyor .",
    "switching on the conveyor belt with @xmath94 @xmath95 g does not extract any atoms from the reservoir yet ; but if the current in h1 is decreased , atoms from the reservoir flood into departing conveyor belt bins .",
    "the fraction of atoms extracted from the reservoir depends on the height of the barrier .",
    "shows a reservoir containing @xmath96 atoms .",
    "we load the first two conveyor bins with @xmath97 atoms each by holding @xmath98 at 300ma during the first and ramping it down to 200ma during the second splitting ( ( d ) ) .",
    "( since the atom number in the reservoir is smaller during the second splitting , @xmath98 has to be smaller in order to equal numbers of atoms into both bins ) .",
    "the third conveyor bin is left empty , which is accomplished by ramping @xmath98 to 800ma , and the fourth conveyor bin is loaded again by ramping @xmath98 to 0 .    in a third step , we were able to merge the partial clouds in a target trap at the end of the conveyor belt .",
    "this is shown in the video sequence _ replenish _ ( see sec .  [",
    "sec : video ] ) . a continuous atom laser based on",
    "this scheme would add an outcoupler to the target trap .",
    "the size of the reservoir needs to be improved for this application .",
    "surface - induced evaporative cooling @xcite can be used to create a condensate in the reservoir , or even `` on the fly '' during transport on the conveyor . in this context",
    ", an interesting feature of the conveyor is that its transport direction can be curved @xcite . in conjunction with pinholes , this can be used to protect the outcoupling region against laser light from the mot in the loading region , and to establish a differential vacuum .",
    "the atom laser source would be pumped by the incoming condensates as demonstrated in  @xcite .",
    "to further illustrate the operation of the different devices we have created animated versions from series of absorption images . as our detection scheme is destructive , the trap is reloaded for each image and the temporal evolution of the parameters is rerun from the beginning to the time at which the atoms are to be imaged .",
    "thus , the acquisition of a single image takes roughly 10s , and a complete animation is recorded in 30 minutes or less , depending on the number of pictures .",
    "computer control of the experiment and good stability of the setup enable automated acquisition of such movies .",
    "the first three video sequences _",
    "conveyorbasic , conveyorhoriz _ and _ becconveyor _ show the different versions of the conveyor that we discuss in .    the sequence _",
    "reunify _ illustrates the measurement in which the adiabaticity of the splitting process was demonstrated ( cf . ) .",
    "splitting into more than two components is also possible and is shown in _ multisplit_.    two modes of operation of the atom dispenser ( cf . )",
    "are shown in the movies _ replenish _ and _ selectdeliv_. in both versions , the consecutive separation of atom clouds has been complemented by replenishing the target reservoir at the end , as would be needed for the implementation of a continuous atom laser .    additionally , we provide two further video sequences , which show the operation of two other on - chip devices that are closely related to those described above . for the movie _",
    "collider _ , two atom clouds were sent to the opposite ends of the conveyor . by suddenly switching off the currents in m1 and m2 ,",
    "the clouds are accelerated towards the trap center , where they penetrate each other . since",
    "their initial density is @xmath99 only , less than @xmath100 of the atoms undergo a collision . with higher initial densities ,",
    "this behaviour would change dramatically .",
    "this device is described in more detail in  @xcite .    finally , _",
    "sixty _ gives an example of a more complex atom trajectory in the plane perpendicular to the substrate .",
    "this kind of transport along a pre - defined trajectory is achieved by modulating wire currents and external fields according to functions that were obtained by numerical optimization .",
    "more details on this technique can be found in @xcite .",
    "the example shown here was recorded on the occasion of the 60th birthday of one of the authors ( twh ) .",
    "we have demonstrated atom chip devices that use time - dependent magnetic fields for atomic nanopositioning , splitting of thermal atomic clouds and becs , and controlled atom dispensing .",
    "the potential use of these devices for atom chip - based quantum information processing , for atom interferometry with trapped atoms , for studies of josephson effects and for pumping of atom lasers has been pointed out .    in order to realize the full potential of future atom chips ,",
    "some important problems remain to be solved . in all the applications described here , trap - surface spacing was larger than @xmath101 m , so that surface - induced heating and losses @xcite did not play a significant role .",
    "if , however , feature sizes approaching @xmath102 m are needed  as is the case for reasonably fast tunnel coupling between wells",
    " the trap - surface distance will most likely also approach @xmath102 m , and surface effects can no longer be neglected @xcite .",
    "high - resistivity materials @xcite and thinner conductor layers @xcite may be a solution in many cases , especially as currents scale down with trap - surface distance .",
    "corrugation of elongated potentials @xcite is currently an impediment for the realization of proposed guided - wave atom interferometers @xcite , but is likely to be remedied by improved manufacturing techniques @xcite .",
    "devices with relatively strong confinement in all three dimensions , such as the trapped - atom interferometer @xcite , are generally much less affected by this problem .",
    "future atom chips will combine more and more functions on the same chip to achieve complex tasks .",
    "thus , the next step towards a chip - based two - qubit gate would be to combine the magnetic double well with an electrostatic field @xcite or a microwave field @xcite to obtain a state - dependent potential .",
    "combination with optical fields generated by microoptical elements has also been proposed @xcite and will further enhance the manipulation capabilities , in particular when trapping of all magnetic sublevels is required . combining a conveyor belt with an optical resonator",
    "@xcite offers exciting perspectives for single - atom detection and cavity qed with trapped atoms .",
    "we gratefully acknowledge financial assistance from the european union under contracts no .",
    "ist-1999 - 11055 ( acquire ) and ist-2001 - 38863 ( acqp ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a toolbox for cold atom manipulation with time - dependent magnetic fields generated by an atom chip . </S>",
    "<S> wire layouts , detailed experimental procedures and results are presented for the following experiments : use of a magnetic conveyor belt for positioning of cold atoms and bose - einstein condensates with a resolution of two nanometers ; splitting of thermal clouds and becs in adjustable magnetic double well potentials ; controlled splitting of a cold reservoir . </S>",
    "<S> the devices that enable these manipulations can be combined with each other . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate this by combining reservoir splitter and conveyor belt to obtain a cold atom dispenser . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the importance of these devices for quantum information processing , atom interferometry and josephson junction physics on the chip . </S>",
    "<S> for all devices , absorption - image video sequences are provided to demonstrate their time - dependent behaviour . </S>"
  ]
}