{
  "news": "They were designed to make Britain’s sailors look ‘cool and modern’. But the Royal Navy’s new uniform was ridiculed yesterday by being compared to the outfits worn by garage mechanics. The all-navy blue gear will replace the outfit worn by serving military personnel since the Second World War and was welcomed by the Defence Ministry as ‘cool and more modern’. Scroll down for video The old Royal Navy uniform of light blue shirt and dark blue trousers, left, is being replaced with all-navy blue gear, right But Twitter user Tony Shumacher wrote: ‘Royal Navy unveils “modern” uniform… sponsored by Kwik Fit?’ Jamie Frost, a seaman who trains at the University Royal Naval Unit, said it ‘reduces RN personnel to looking like garage car mechanics’. The new attire, which replaces the action working dress known as No4s, has been tested on ships and submarines. The Navy says the feedback from sailors so far has been ‘mostly positive’. The new uniform has been ridiculed by being compared to the outfits worn by garage mechanics It is only to be worn during operational duties and will not replace more formal uniforms or berets and old caps It is only to be worn during operational duties and will not replace more formal uniforms or berets and old caps. A layering system allows it to be adapted for different climates. The crew of frigate HMS Lancaster will be the first to deploy in the Royal Navy personal clothing system (RNPCS) when they begin an Atlantic patrol tomorrow. The crew of frigate HMS Lancaster, pictured will be first to wear the uniforms, when they begin an Atlantic patrol tomorrow",
  "summary": "Royal Navy has unveiled first new uniforms since the Second World War The all-navy blue gear has been welcomed by MoD as 'cool and modern' But others have ridiculed it, saying it looks like outfits worn by mechanics It will only be worn during operational duties and won't replace formal uniform",
  "translate": "Hải quân Hoàng gia đã tiết lộ đồng phục mới đầu tiên kể từ Thế chiến thứ hai, thiết bị xanh hoàn toàn vô cùng đã được Mod chào đón là 'mát mẻ và hiện đại' nhưng những người khác đã chế giễu nó, nói rằng nó trông giống như trang phục được mặc bởi cơ học, nó sẽ chỉ được mặc trong quá trình vận hành Nhiệm vụ và sẽ không thay thế đồng phục chính thức"
}