{
  "news": "By Becky Evans PUBLISHED: 03:44 EST, 29 April 2013 | UPDATED: 05:57 EST, 29 April 2013 Getting stuck behind a caravan or a tractor can be frustrating enough. But spare a thought for the drivers who were following this man 'walking' his dog through a village in his mobility scooter with a top speed of 8mph. The green buggy was pictured by one frustrated motorist driving through the village of Corfe Castle, Dorset, where the speed limit is 30mph. The dog-owner was pictured exercising his pet by tying it to the back of a mobility scooter One witness said: 'How is the man in this disabled scooter allowed to drive in the middle of a busy road taking his dog for a walk. 'He's tied his dog with a piece of rope to the disabled buggy and was taking it for walkies. Cars were having to slam on their brakes and overtake, where are the police when you want them.' But despite the perceived dangers, police confirmed that it is legal to drive a mobility scooter on the road and said no offence had been committed. A spokesman for Dorset Police said: 'Obviously it would be advisable for them to use the pavement, but the photo doesn't actually show any road related offences.' Government policy rules on powered wheelchairs and mobility scooters state that vehicles with an upper speed limit of 8mph can be used on the road and the pavement. Earlier this month a confused tourist was seen driving the wrong way along a 70mph dual carriageway on a buggy However, the rules state: 'When you are on the road you should obey the guidance and rules for other vehicles. 'When on the pavement you should follow the guidance and rules for pedestrians.' Earlier this month, police went to the rescue of a 62-year-old man on a mobility scooter after he ended up driving the wrong way along the hard shoulder of a busy dual carriageway. The confused tourist was spotted by concerned drivers as he rode at 8mph along the 70mph A27 and A23 near Brighton, Sussex. The man is thought to have travelled at least five miles on the battery-powered machine before he was found by police slowly heading north on the main carriageway of the A23 towards Gatwick Airport with the scooter battery almost dead.",
  "summary": "The man and his dog travelled at just 8mph in Corfe Castle, Dorset Motorists said they had to swerve and slam on the brakes to avoid hitting it Police said no driving offence had been committed",
  "translate": "Người đàn ông và con chó của anh ta đi du lịch chỉ 8mph trong lâu đài Corfe, những người lái xe Dorset cho biết họ phải vung và đập vào phanh để tránh đánh vào đó cảnh sát cho biết không có hành vi phạm tội lái xe nào"
}