{
  "news": "He may have been declared the 'ninth wonder of the universe' as the 'world's only flying elephant'. But these Dumbo-shaped clouds prove that you can see elephants fly - even if it is just in a cloud formation. Disney's cartoon character appeared in the sky over Flagg in Derbyshire just a short distance from another formation which resembled the march of the elephants in the Jungle Book. They were captured by nature photographer Jim, who said: 'I couldn't believe it - it was Dumbo on one side and the Jungle Book on the other. A cloud shaped like Disney character Dumbo 'the world's first flying elephant' appeared over Derbyshire Dumbo follows the story of a young circus elephant who is ridiculed because of his enormous ears 'I was on a drive looking for wildlife to photograph when I saw the clouds over a field. It looked like Dumbo the elephant so I quickly got my camera out. 'Then less than a minute later I turned around to see another cloud shaped like the march of the elephants scene in the Jungle Book. It was amazing. 'What was so great was that they were in two hundred yards of each other.' One cloud looked like a large elephant flicking its tail and raising its trunk and another seconds later appeared to be in the shape of a herd. Dumbo was the most financially successful Disney film of the 1940s, eventually grossing just over £1million during its original release. The film follows the story of a young circus elephant, ridiculed because of his enormous ears, who is assisted by a mouse to become the 'world's first flying elephant'. Just 200 yards away, photographer Jim spottd abother another formation which resembled the march of the elephants in the Jungle Book The famous scene in the Jungle Book starts with the lyrics, 'Hup two three four, keep it up, two three four'",
  "summary": "A cloud shaped like Disney character Dumbo appeared over Derbyshire Another formation which resembled the march of the elephants was seen This is a famous scene in 1967 Disney film The Jungle Book Photographer Jim said seeing formations so close together was 'amazing'",
  "translate": "Một đám mây có hình dạng giống như nhân vật Dumbo Dumbo xuất hiện trên Derbyshire, một đội hình khác giống như cuộc tuần hành của những con voi được nhìn thấy đây là một cảnh nổi tiếng vào năm 1967, bộ phim Disney, nhiếp ảnh gia Jungle Jim nói rằng việc nhìn thấy sự hình thành rất gần nhau là 'tuyệt vời'"
}