{
  "news": "The Los Angeles Police Department has released surveillance video showing a vicious attack on a woman by a serial purse snatcher who has been on a prowl in the Koreatown section of the city for nearly two months. Police issued a plea Tuesday asking the public for help in catching the suspect, who they believe is responsible for at least four attacks that took place between November 9 and December 30. Each time, the assailant, believed to be a Hispanic man, followed a lone Korean woman into an apartment building elevator, beat and robbed her. Scroll down for video String of robberies: The Los Angeles Police Department has released surveillance video showing a vicious attack on a woman (left) by a serial purse snatcher (right) inside a Koreatown building Brutal attack: The video was recorded November 9 at around 4.25am inside an apartment building in the 300 block of Alexandria Avenue The video made public this week by the LAPD was recorded November 9 at around 4.25am inside an apartment building in the 300 block of Alexandria Avenue. The 17-second footage shows a woman of Korean descent laden with parcels walking through the lobby towards the elevator. Moments later, a man wearing a hooded sweatshirt and shorts follows the woman into the elevator off camera, punches her and hurls her to the ground with such force that her body is sent spinning. The victim tries to put up a fight before the attacker yanks the purse hanging around her neck, leaving the woman lying on the tile floor. In a news release, police wrote that the attacker struck again two weeks later, this time punching and robbing a Korean woman in an apartment elevator in the 500 block of Hobart Boulevard. Two more attacks followed on December 23 and December 30. In the former, the victim was sexually battered before being punched numerous times and robbed of her purse inside a building in the 300 block of Alexandria Avenue. Assaulted: The footage shows a Korean woman being hurled to the ground and punched by a man in a grey hooded sweatshirt and shorts Struggle: The victim tries to put up a fight before the attacker yanks the purse hanging around her neck, leaving the woman lying on the tile floor Repeat offender: LAPD says the Hispanic man is responsible for four attacks on Korean women that took place between November 9 and December 30 In the latest attack, which played out just before 11pm in the 400 block of Westmoreland Avenue, the victim had a sharp object pressed to her neck before the assailant slammed her to the ground, punched and kicked her several times to make her let go of her handbag. ‘That’s the concerning part. This is escalating to the point where it’s becoming quite violent, and we really want to take him into custody right now, Los Angeles police Officer Jack Richter told KCAL. The suspect is described as a 20-30 year-old male Hispanic. He stands at approximately 5 feet 6 inches to 5 feet 8 inches and weighs about 130-170lbs. Anyone with information about the robberies or who recognizes the suspect is urged to call LAPD Olympic Division Robbery Detectives at (213) 382-9460.",
  "summary": "LAPD says a Hispanic man is responsible for four attacks on Korean women that took place between November 9 and December 30 Surveillance video from inside a Koreatown apartment building shows the assailant hurl a woman to the floor and snatch her purse In December 23 attack, the suspect sexually battered and repeatedly punched his victim The latest attack involved the robber threatening a woman with a sharp object pressed to her neck",
  "translate": "LAPD nói rằng một người đàn ông gốc Tây Ban Nha chịu trách nhiệm cho bốn cuộc tấn công vào phụ nữ Hàn Quốc diễn ra từ ngày 9 tháng 11 đến ngày 30 tháng 12, video giám sát từ bên trong một tòa nhà chung cư của Koreatown cho thấy kẻ tấn công một người phụ nữ xuống sàn và cướp ví của cô ta vào ngày 23 tháng 12, nghi phạm Bị đánh đập tình dục và liên tục đấm vào nạn nhân của mình, cuộc tấn công mới nhất liên quan đến tên cướp đe dọa một người phụ nữ bằng một vật sắc nhọn được ép vào cổ cô ấy"
}