{
  "news": "The Wolf of Wall Street revealed the highs - and lows - a broker can have when playing the stock market. But for many people, the idea of trading in stocks and shares is overwhelming, and reserved for a select few - until now. A Netherlands-based app called Bux is hoping to ‘bring the fun back to finance’ by teaching people how to trade using virtual currency. Scroll down for video Bux takes users through step-by-step instructions on how to search for companies to invest in, how to sell shares and what the jargon means. They can then trade on well-known brands, using their virtual currency, to get a feel for how the system works And it even let’s people trade with their own money - when they’re ready. As with any apps that involve betting and investment, users are warned about the risks before spending any real money on the service, and are advised about the dangers involved. The app takes users through step-by-step instructions on how to search for companies to invest in, how to sell shares and what the jargon means. They can then trade on well-known brands, using their virtual currency, to get a feel for how the system works. If a user decides to become a real money investor, referred to as a seriousBux user, they can then begin making trades on companies across the market. Each trader sets up a profile, and traders can compete against each other in Bux battles, and track the success of other users. Bux battles are intense, timed contests to see who can make the best returns. All Bux users start with a funBux account. The app takes users through step-by-step instructions on how to search for companies to invest in, how to sell shares, and what the jargon means. They can then trade on well-known brands, using their virtual currency, to get a feel for how the system works. If a user decides to become a real money investor, referred to as a seriousBux user, they can then begin making trades on companies across the market. Each trader sets up a profile, and traders can compete against each other in Bux battles, and track the success of other users. Bux battles are timed contests to see who can make the best returns. Since it launched, Bux has gained 35,000 users, according to its developers, and these users have placed more than 500,000 trades. Nick Bortot, boss of Bux, explained: ‘In the past, investing was something complicated that your dad did, putting his money in listed companies you’d never heard of. If a user decides to become a real money investor, referred to as a seriousBux user, they can then begin making trades on companies across the market. Each trader sets up a profile, and traders can compete against each other in Bux battles, and track the success of other users The Wolf of Wall Street (starring Leonardo DiCaprio as Jordan Belfort) revealed the highs - and lows - a broker can have when playing the stock market. The film was criticised for glamourising Mr Belfort's crimes. The Bux app warns users about the risks involved in spread betting and trading ‘Nowadays we see far more people interested in big businesses - disruptive tech companies like Google, Facebook, GoPro or Netflix have an impact on everyone’s daily life. ‘With Bux, everyone now has the opportunity to learn about that world through trading and having fun.’ The app does warn that: ‘Spread Betting and CFDs are not suitable for all investors and you should ensure that you understand the risks involved and, if necessary, obtain independent financial advice to ensure that these products fit your investment objectives. ‘Tax law can be changed or may differ if you pay tax in a jurisdiction other than the UK.’",
  "summary": "Bux is described as a ‘casual trading app that brings fun back to finance’ Users are given an overview of how trading in stocks and shares works They are then given virtual currency called funBux to experiment with If they choose to, they can trade using real money - known as seriousBux The app warns users that spread betting is a high-risk investment and all traders should be aware of these risks before trading",
  "translate": "BUX được mô tả là một 'ứng dụng giao dịch thông thường mang lại sự thú vị cho người dùng' được cung cấp một cái nhìn tổng quan về cách giao dịch trong cổ phiếu và cổ phiếu mà sau đó họ được cung cấp tiền ảo được gọi là Funbux để thử nghiệm nếu họ chọn, họ có thể giao dịch bằng cách sử dụng Real Tiền - được gọi là nghiêm trọng, ứng dụng cảnh báo người dùng rằng việc đặt cược là một khoản đầu tư có rủi ro cao và tất cả các nhà giao dịch nên biết về những rủi ro này trước khi giao dịch"
}