{
  "news": "Jake Beattie, eight, died after being hit by a 4WD on Monday at The Ponds in Sydney's north west An eight-year-old boy, who was riding his bike to the park alongside his best friend, has died after being hit by a four-wheel drive. Jake Beattie was wearing a helmet and riding on the road at The Ponds in Sydney's north west on Monday afternoon when he rode through a give-way sign, according to Nine News. Levi Masi watched on helplessly as the car struck down his best friend at 5:45pm. Paramedics were immediately called to the scene where they desperately worked on Jake through the pouring rain. Neighbours who were arriving home from work at the time told Fairfax Media that the driver of the four-wheel drive, a 32-year-old woman, was seen crying and distraught. Kate Kljaic, a mother who lives in the area, described the tragic scene to Nine News. 'You knew it wasn't going to be good just by how everyone was standing around,' Ms Kljaic said. '[Jake's] mother was just naturally beside herself and just didn't know what was happening. 'She came rushing down and everyone was just doing their best to try and help him. It was just very difficult to watch. Scroll down for video He had been riding his bike on the road and is believed to have ridden through a give-way sign when he was struck down His best friend, Levi Masi (pictured) watched on helplessly as the car hit his best friend 'It's not the way you need to learn a lesson and the poor woman has to live with it.' Jake was rushed to Westmead Hospital but died from his severe injuries. His local football coach, Gavin Mackay, said he was 'devastated' to hear about the young boy's death and described him as 'an energetic, happy, very polite' boy who loved playing with his mates. Jake's football coach, Gavin Mackay (left) described the boy as 'energetic, happy, very polite'. Local resident, Kate Kljaic (right) described Jake's mother as 'beside herself', saying she 'just didn't know what was happening' Neighbours said that the driver of the four-wheel drive, a 32-year-old woman, was seen crying and distraught Neighbours and friends have formed a small tribute on the corner of Paddock Street and Capertree Street where the eight-year-old was hit, placing down flowers, stuffed toys and notes in his memory. 'May the angels guide you up to a wonderful resting place. You have our community mourning for you little fella. Our prayers go out to your family and friends,' one of the notes read, according to Fairfax. Less than half an hour after Jake's accident, a Sydney teenager was also seriously injured after being hit by a vehicle. Neighbours and friends have formed a small tribute on the corner of Paddock Street and Capertree Street where the eight-year-old was hit, placing down flowers, stuffed toys and notes in his memory 'May the angels guide you up to a wonderful resting place. You have our community mourning for you little fella. Our prayers go out to your family and friends,' one of the notes read Justin Shanahan, from McGraths Hill in Sydney's north west, was 'standing in the break-down lane of Pitt Town Road, McGraths Hill when he was struck by a b-double truck', police said. The 14-year-old has undergone surgery after suffering wounds to his arm and forehead and is currently recovering in Nepean District Hospital. His family are appealing for the driver of the truck, who failed to stop after hitting the teen, to come forward. 'Cowardly, just come forward. It's not right,' Justin told Nine News on Tuesday. Another roadside victim: Justin Shanahan was left with head and arm injuries after being struck by a b-double truck on the same afternoon The 14-year-old's family are appealing for the driver of the truck, who failed to stop after hitting the teen, to come forward",
  "summary": "Jake Beattie was wearing his helmet and riding on the road when he allegedly rode through a give-way sign The eight-year-old was hit by a four-wheel drive and died from his injuries shortly after being taken to hospital Levi Masi watched on helplessly as the car struck down his best friend Neighbours said the 32-year-old female driver of the 4WD was distraught On the same afternoon, Sydney teenager Justin Shanahan, 14, suffered head and arm injuries after being hit by a b-double truck His family is appealing for the driver, who did not stop after hitting the boy, to come forward and identify himself",
  "translate": "Jake Beattie đang đội mũ bảo hiểm và đi trên đường khi anh ta bị cáo buộc lái xe qua một dấu hiệu cho một đứa trẻ tám tuổi bị một bánh xe bốn bánh đâm vào và chết vì vết thương của anh ta ngay sau khi được đưa đến bệnh viện Levi Masi theo dõi bất lực khi chiếc xe đánh sập người bạn thân nhất của anh ta cho biết người lái xe 4WD 32 tuổi đã bị quẫn trí vào cùng buổi chiều, thiếu niên Sydney Justin Shanahan, 14 tuổi, bị thương ở đầu và tay sau khi bị một chiếc xe tải B-Touck Gia đình anh ấy đang hấp dẫn người lái xe, người không dừng lại sau khi đánh cậu bé, để tiến lên và tự nhận mình"
}