{
  "news": "Gllery manager Geraldine Hassler (pictured) had mistakenly sold the painting while the gallery was storing it for the customer An art gallery manager sold a customer’s £5,000 painting to somebody else by mistake – before commissioning an ‘ugly copy’ to try to con its owner. The Envie d’art gallery, in South Kensington, London, had been asked to look after the painting while the home of the customer who purchased it was undergoing renovations. But when the art lover asked for it to be delivered three years later, the gallery gave him an apparent imitation - and then tried to convince him it was his original. The Evening Standard reports that gallery manager Geraldine Hassler had mistakenly sold the painting while they were storing it for the customer. The newspaper quotes a source as saying that the gallery initially said it was having trouble locating the painting and asked the customer whether he had a picture of the artwork to help them trace it. He did not have an image – but weeks later he was informed it had been found in Envie d’art’s Paris gallery. Once it had been picked up in London, the customer spotted differences and asked if the artist had carried out any extra work on the painting. After being told this had not happened, he took his purchase home, only to find that the artist’s signature was dated three years after he bought it. The Evening Standard quotes the source as saying that the customer eventually found an email picture of his original and saw that he had been given a ‘rather ugly copy’. The source said the gallery manager had ‘panicked’ when the customer asked for his painting back and ordered a new commission that was ‘in the spirit’ of the original ‘for a new client’. After being threatened with legal action, the gallery eventually admitted its error. An art gallery manager sold a customer’s £5,000 painting (left) to somebody else by mistake – before commissioning an ‘ugly copy’ to try and con its owner The Envie d’art gallery (pictured), in South Kensington, London, had been asked to look after the painting while the home of the customer who purchased it was undergoing renovations The Standard quotes gallery owner Yann Bombard as saying Ms Hassler alone had sold the painting by mistake and that he only found out when she came clean. He said: ‘She really thought at the beginning he would be happy with the new painting and she lied instead of telling the truth.’ He said he had apologised for her ‘huge mistake’ and offered compensation. The newspaper said Ms Hassler ‘did not contradict’ Mr Bombard’s description of what had happened but said she had nothing more to add. MailOnline has yet to receive a response following attempts to contact gallery representatives this evening.",
  "summary": "The Envie d'art gallery in London had been asked to look after the painting But when customer asked for it to be delivered, gallery gave him a copy Manager Geraldine Hassler sold artwork in error while they were storing it Source says she 'panicked' when the art lover asked for his painting and commissioned a copy 'for a new client’ But the customer then spotted the differences and threatened legal action Gallery owners apologised and say Ms Hassler made a 'huge mistake'",
  "translate": "Phòng trưng bày Envie D'Art ở London đã được yêu cầu chăm sóc bức tranh nhưng khi khách hàng yêu cầu được giao, Gallery đã cho anh ta một người quản lý bản sao Geraldine Hassler đã bán tác phẩm nghệ thuật trong khi họ đang lưu trữ nguồn tin nói rằng cô ấy 'hoảng loạn' khi Người yêu nghệ thuật đã yêu cầu bức tranh của mình và ủy thác một bản sao 'cho một khách hàng mới' nhưng sau đó khách hàng đã phát hiện ra sự khác biệt và đe dọa các chủ sở hữu phòng trưng bày hành động pháp lý đã xin lỗi và nói rằng bà Hassler đã phạm một 'sai lầm lớn'"
}