{
  "news": "Four years after signing for Arsenal, Wellington Silva has finally received clearance to make his Gunners bow after being granted a Spanish passport. He signed for Arsenal in January 2011 from Fluminese for a fee of £3.5million but has not been able to play for the club without a work permit. But all that changed late on Tuesday, as the Brazilian jubilantly revealed on Twitter that he has been awarded Spanish nationality, complete with a picture of his passport. Wellington Silva has finally received clearance to make his Arsenal bow, four years after signing for the club Wellington Silva put a picture on Twitter of his Spanish passport, which means he can finally play for Arsenal Wellington (left) competes with Isco of Real Madrid for possession while playing for Almeria Wellington can play as a winger or second striker, boosting Arsenal's attacking options with his versatility Wellington has had to wait four years for his work permit issues to be resolved but can now play for Arsenal 'The good thing is slow in coming, but arrives with the greatest satisfaction in the world. Spanish nationality!!' Wellington tweeted. His passport means he can now freely play for any team in the European Union. The 22-year-old initially impressed Arsenal on trial in 2008, scoring four times. He has gone on to play for Brazil Under 21s and scored a stunning winner in the 2-1 victory against China in November last year. He will provide another versatile attacking option to Wenger's team, as he can operate as a winger or second striker. Wellington can now link-up with Arsene Wenger and Arsenal for pre-season and the 2015-16 campaign Wellington celebrates scoring against Cordoba during his loan spell at Murcia Wellington will see out the season at Almeria, where he has already made 16 appearances for the club who are embroiled in a survival battle in La Liga. The Spanish league side are the fifth team he has been on loan to while his work permit issues have needed resolving. Wellington has also played at Spanish sides Levante, Alcoyano, Ponferradina and Murcia. He will look to use the experience gained from those loan tenures to break into Arsene Wenger's thinking upon his eventual arrival for the 2015-16 campaign.",
  "summary": "Wellington Silva signed for Arsenal in 2011 for £3.5million from Fluminese He was ineligible for a work permit and has had five loan spells in Spain He has been granted Spanish nationality, allowing him to play for Arsenal READ: Theo Walcott will open Arsenal talks in next fortnight CLICK HERE for all the latest Arsenal news",
  "translate": "Wellington Silva đã ký hợp đồng với Arsenal vào năm 2011 với giá 3,5 triệu bảng từ Fluminese, anh không đủ điều kiện nhận giấy phép làm việc và đã có năm phép cho vay ở Tây Ban Nha, anh đã được cấp quốc tịch Tây Ban Nha, cho phép anh chơi cho Arsenal Tổ chức năm hai lần bấm vào đây để biết tất cả các tin tức mới nhất của Arsenal"
}