{
  "news": "Shocking CCTV images capture the moment a masked gang smashed their way into a jewellery store before making off with thousands of pounds worth of goods. Raiders carried out the robbery on Naz Jewellers in Rochdale, Greater Manchester in broad daylight last Thursday lunchtime. Images from the store's CCTV cameras show four men running towards the shop before one of them uses a battering ram to get through two doors. CCTV from Naz Jewellers in Rochdale, Greater Manchester shows the gang using sledgehammers during a raid at around 12.30pm last Thursday (January 22) The robbers broke through a security door before filling six bags with expensive jewellery and making off Staff fled into the back of the store fearing they would be attacked by the men - who they said spoke with Asian accents. A £60,000 BMW X5 waited in the busy Milkstone Road outside, while the men used a sledgehammer to smash through display cabinets and steal jewellery. The gang then ran back to the car and made off before police could arrive. The car was abandoned nearby. The value of the six bags of jewellery taken has not been revealed and police are appealing for information. Detective Sergeant Laura Sutcliffe said: 'This is a very serious incident in which weapons have been used in order to intimidate staff and then steal items. 'Detectives are investigating several lines of inquiry but I would like to reassure the public that this is an isolated incident.' A silver BMW X5 waited outside while the raid took place - it was later found abandoned nearby The CCTV footage released by the police shows how the gang used a battering ram to get through two doors The masked raiders quickly targeted expensive jewellery as staff retreated into the back of the shop Detective Sergeant Sutcliffe added: 'Thankfully no-one was physically injured but clearly everyone inside the store is suffering from severe shock as it has had a significant impact on them. 'This violent robbery happened on a busy street in broad daylight in the middle of the day, so we believe there may be a significant number of witnesses who could have vital information for us. 'There may have been a number of people who filmed what was happening on their smartphones so if you did see what happened, or you did take some footage, then please contact us. 'We are working with the store to establish exactly what was stolen but in the meantime, if you are offered pieces of jewellery which you suspect may be stolen then please call us immediately.'",
  "summary": "Four robbers raided town centre shop while getaway car waited outside They used battering ram and hammers to smash display cabinets The men - who had Asian accents - disappeared with six bags of jewellery Police say staff were left in 'severe shock' after 'very serious incident'",
  "translate": "Bốn tên cướp đã đột kích cửa hàng trung tâm thị trấn trong khi xe nghỉ đợi bên ngoài, họ đã sử dụng ram và búa đập để đập vỡ tủ trưng bày những người đàn ông - những người có giọng châu Á - biến mất với sáu túi trang sức cảnh sát nói rằng nhân viên bị bỏ lại trong 'sốc nghiêm trọng' sau khi 'sự cố rất nghiêm trọng '"
}