{
  "news": "Most women treated for breast cancer during pregnancy or women who become pregnant after undergoing treatment for the disease go on to have healthy babies, experts have said. Breast cancer is rare in younger women, although The Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (RCOG) say that the number who go on to have babies after being treated for the disease is increasing. Around 50,000 women are affected by breast cancer every year, but the RCOG said that treatment success rates in the UK are good and are continually improving, with five-year survival rates currently around 80 percent for the under-50s age group. Positive: Experts at the The Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists say that most women treated for breast cancer during pregnancy or women who become pregnant after undergoing treatment for the disease go on to have healthy babies (picture posed by models) On rare occasions, breast cancer is diagnosed during pregnancy and the RCOG has published new patient information published outlining details for women who are pregnant and have been diagnosed with breast cancer, or who have recovered and are planning a family. Philippa Marsden, chair of the RCOG Patient Information Committee, said: 'It is important to emphasise that breast cancer during pregnancy is rare, with 1.3 to 2.4 cases per 10,000 live births. 'Being diagnosed with breast cancer whilst pregnant can be extremely frightening. However, a specialist team including a consultant obstetrician, midwife and breast team will look after a woman throughout her pregnancy and ensure the best possible outcome for both mother and baby.' For women diagnosed with breast cancer while pregnant, treatment will usually begin straight away and will be offered according to the type and extent of the cancer with a multidisciplinary team on hand to discuss all available treatment options. Improving: Around 50,000 women are affected by breast cancer every year, but the RCOG said that treatment success rates in the UK are good and are continually improving (picture posed by models) These include surgery to remove the lump or the affected breast. Surgery can be carried out at any stage in pregnancy, the RCOG said. Chemotherapy is not given during the first 13 weeks of pregnancy as it may cause abnormalities in the baby but after that, it is safe and chemotherapy may be offered to women fighting the disease. The anti-sickness and steroid treatments that control chemotherapy side effects are also safe and will not cause harm to the baby, but radiotherapy is not usually offered as a treatment option until after the birth. Two commonly used drugs - tamoxifen and herceptin - are often given after the initial treatment to reduce the chance of the cancer recurring. These drugs are not recommended during pregnancy and will be delayed until after the birth. Cath Broderick, chair of the RCOG Women’s Network, said: 'The diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer is improving all the time and we are now seeing more women than ever surviving the disease. 'Being pregnant does not seem to affect how successful treatment is. This patient information gives a lot of reassurance and advice for women in this situation.'",
  "summary": "Disease affects 50,000 in the UK every year but is rare in younger women Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists say number who go on to have babies after being treated for the disease is increasing Five-year survival rates currently around 80% for the under-50s age group There are 1.3 to 2.4 cases of the cancer in pregnancy per 10,000 live births Chemotherapy is safe after 13 weeks, but radiotherapy is not offered",
  "translate": "Bệnh ảnh hưởng đến 50.000 ở Anh mỗi năm nhưng rất hiếm ở phụ nữ trẻ hơn Đại học Bác sĩ Sản phụ Nhóm tuổi có 1,3 đến 2,4 trường hợp ung thư trong thai kỳ trên 10.000 lần sinh sống hóa trị liệu an toàn sau 13 tuần, nhưng xạ trị không được cung cấp"
}