{
  "news": "London, England (CNN) -- Metropolitan police in London, England, appealed Monday for further information about last month's death of a man who worked for a British intelligence agency and whose naked body was found in a padlocked duffel bag in his bathroom. Police also released surveillance camera images of Gareth Williams taken August 15, about a week before officials discovered his body on August 23. In addition, police said they would like help identifying \"a man and a woman, both of Mediterranean appearance,\" between the ages of 20 and 30 and who were seen entering Wiliams' apartment building late one evening in June or July. \"This remains a complex unexplained death enquiry,\" Det. Chief Inspector Jacqueline Sebire said in a statement Monday. Williams worked at Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ), Britain's intelligence agency for monitoring communication and keeping government data secret, the agency told CNN. He was widely reported to have been on loan to MI6, the foreign intelligence service, in London. The crime scene did not seem to reveal much information. \"There was no sign of any forced entry to the property, and no signs of disturbance inside,\" police said, adding that robbery did not appear to be a motive. \"We do not believe there is any property missing from the flat,\" the police statement said. \"There is no suggestion the items within the flat were specifically posed. No drugs, or indications of drug usage were recovered.\" An August 25 autopsy \"established no obvious cause of death,\" police said. \"Extensive forensic tests at the flat in Alderney Street and from the samples taken at the post mortem continue,\" police said. \"Initial indications from the toxicology examinations show no trace of any alcohol or routine or recreational drugs. Testing for any other substance continues.\" Police believe Williams was last seen alive on August 15, when surveillance cameras show him shopping in the West End and Knightsbridge areas of London. He had returned August 11 from a trip to the United States, police said Monday.",
  "summary": "His naked body was found stuffed inside a locked bag in his bathroom Victim Gareth Williams was on loan to MI6, the foreign intelligence service, reports say Surveillance video shows him shopping on August 15, about a week before his body was discovered Police say they found no sign of forced entry or robbery",
  "translate": "Cơ thể trần truồng của anh ta đã được tìm thấy nhồi trong một chiếc túi bị khóa trong phòng tắm của anh ta, nạn nhân của anh ta, Gareth Williams đã được MI6, Dịch vụ Tình báo Nước ngoài cho thấy video giám sát cho thấy anh ta mua sắm vào ngày 15 tháng 8, khoảng một tuần trước khi cảnh sát phát hiện ra cơ thể của anh ta nói rằng họ đã tìm thấy Không có dấu hiệu bắt buộc nhập cảnh hoặc cướp"
}