{
  "news": "By Alex Greig PUBLISHED: 10:44 EST, 14 March 2014 | UPDATED: 12:52 EST, 14 March 2014 A Long Island man with no patience for traffic jams has won $5 million after stopping to buy some lottery tickets on his way home from work to pass the time until a bumper-to-bumper back-up cleared. Thomas Mainella, 62, an electrician from Melville, pulled over after hitting a road detour in Plainview and bought six Set for Life scratch-off tickets from Sunny's Cards and Gifts. He decided to scratch all six at the store but never made it past the fifth. 'I'm a winner!': Thomas Mainella (center) with his girlfriend Donna (right) 'I scratched that and it said \"life\" and I just went \"I'm a freaking winner!' Mainella told Fox and Friends. Mainella is a longtime lottery player and always imagined his numbers would come up. 'I've always told people I'm going to win big on this game. They all thought I was crazy,' he told the New York State Lottery. Mainella said he's always fantasized that if he won, he'd rent a limo to drive to his girlfriend Donna, pick her up and tell her he'd won the lottery. Unfortunately, he was unable to rent a limo at such short notice, so he drove himself home - presumably not even annoyed at the traffic jam. Big plans: Mainella and his girlfriend are planning to have a much more elaborate wedding than they could have afforded before the win 'I called six different companies that day and no one could send a limo on such short notice so I called her at work and told her to come home right away.' Mainella greeted Donna at the front door and asked, 'Do you believe in me?' When Donna said that she did, he told her 'You're gonna be happy for the rest of your life.' Mainella has elected to take his $5 million in 20 installments of $172,000 per year. The father of three intends to use the money on a wedding for himself and Donna and to fund his retirement. He was one of four Long Island residents who took home a total $12 million in Lotto winnings on Tuesday.",
  "summary": "Thomas Mainella, 62, got stuck in traffic on his way home from work, so pulled over to buy lottery tickets to pass the time Mainella bought six tickets and won $5 million on the fifth one he scratched The electrician plans to use the money to marry his girlfriend and fund their retirement",
  "translate": "Thomas Mainella, 62 tuổi, đã bị kẹt xe trên đường đi làm về, vì vậy đã kéo qua mua vé số để vượt qua thời gian Mainella mua sáu vé và giành được 5 triệu đô la vào lần thứ năm, anh ta đã gãi thợ điện để sử dụng tiền để kết hôn bạn gái của anh ấy và tài trợ cho họ nghỉ hưu"
}