{
  "news": "This is the first picture of the woman who abandoned her husband and her Down syndrome son after her family said they were two ashamed of the newborn's condition. Ruzan Badalyan has filed for divorce from her husband Samuel Forrest, after he refused to give up son Leo. Ruzan - who can be seen on her Instagram profile cradling her burgeoning bump - gave birth to Leo on January 21 in an Armenian hospital. But within hours, she had given her New Zealand-born husband of eighteen months an ultimatum: her, or his newborn son. Scroll down for video Ruzan Badalyan and her partner Samuel Forrest pictured in happier times, before she discovered their newborn son Leo had Down syndrome She gave husband Samuel an ultimatum within hours of Leo's birth in an Armenian hospital on January 21 Ruzan, who is seen here cradling her bump, refused to look at or even touch her first-born son Today, Ruzan, a former journalist and PR, according to her LinkedIn page, spoke to ABC News, simply confirming she was the mother and that she had filed for divorce. Samuel, who spoke out about the heartbreaking decision this week, revealed his wife refused to look at or even touch her son because Armenian culture believes a child with a condition like Leo's brings shame on the entire family. When Leo was born, Samuel said he wasn't immediately allowed to see his son or wife. 'This paediatrician walks out of the room with a little bundle... She had his face covered up and hospital authorities wouldn't let me see him or my wife,' he told ABC News. 'When the doctor came out, he said \"there’s a real problem with your son\".' Samuel said he was shocked when doctors initially told him of Leo's Down syndrome, but it never crossed his mind to abandon him. 'They took me in to see him and I looked at this guy and I said, he's beautiful, he's perfect and I'm absolutely keeping him,' he said. Samuel is now desperately trying to crowd fund to flee the eastern European country so he can raise Leo back in his native New Zealand He has already far exceeded his target - with donations flooding in from throughout the world When he carried Leo in to meet his wife, she threatened to leave him if he kept his son. 'What happens when a baby like this is born here, they will tell you that you don't have to keep them,' he told ABC News. 'My wife had already decided, so all of this was done behind my back.' Samuel's wife filed for divorce a week later. The couple had only been married for 18 months when little Leo was born in January The extra money raised for Leo will be shared with an Armenian orphanage which takes in children with Down syndrome People have been touched by the devotion Samuel has shown towards his son, calling him 'inspriational' The first-time father is now desperately trying to crowd fund to flee the eastern European country so he can raise Leo back in his native New Zealand The first-time father is now desperately trying to crowd fund to flee the eastern European country so he can raise Leo back in his native New Zealand. The fundraising page, titled Bring Leo Home, has already raised more than $100,000 in less than 24 hours. Samuel has been left stunned by the outpouring of support. 'Leo and I found out in the wee hours of the morning that we had crossed our target. He is a lucky guy to have the support of thousands of friends around the world,' he said. The money will be used find a house in Auckland and to give Leo education opportunities. Samuel also plans to use some of the funds to support parents in Armenia who are raising children with disabilities. 'We’d also like to share the surplus funds with the only orphanage in Armenia that regularly takes abandoned Down syndrome babies as well as other organisations that can help these children,' he said. The initial goal for Samuel and Leo was to raise enough for a year so he could get part-time work and care for his son. To make a donation to Leo's cause, visit: www.gofundme.com/bringleohome",
  "summary": "Ruzan Badalyan gave birth to Leo on January 21 in an Armenian hospital But she quickly abandoned him after learning he had Down syndrome The young mother feared his condition would bring shame on her family She made husband Samuel choose between her and their newborn son First-time father was handed divorce papers a week after Leo was born Sameul has turned to crowd funding so he can raise Leo in his native New Zealand Fundraising page has raised more than $335,000 in less than 24 hours",
  "translate": "Ruzan Badalyan đã hạ sinh Leo vào ngày 21 tháng 1 tại một bệnh viện người Armenia nhưng cô nhanh chóng bỏ rơi anh sau khi biết rằng anh bị Hội chứng Down, người mẹ trẻ sợ tình trạng của anh sẽ gây xấu hổ cho gia đình cô, cô đã chọn người chồng Samuel giữa cô và con trai mới sinh của họ lần đầu tiên Cha đã được trao giấy tờ ly hôn một tuần sau khi Leo được sinh ra, Sameul đã chuyển sang tài trợ đám đông để ông có thể tăng LEO trong trang gây quỹ New Zealand quê hương của mình đã huy động được hơn 335.000 đô la trong vòng chưa đầy 24 giờ"
}