{
  "news": "West Bromwich Albion have made contact with Tim Sherwood and Tony Pulis about the prospect of replacing sacked Alan Irvine. The pair are the leading candidates to take over, with chairman Jeremy Peace eager to make a new appointment by the weekend. It is believed initial discussions have taken place with each manager’s representatives with further talks to come. Alan Irvine (above) was sacked by West Bromwich Albion on Monday evening Former Tottenham Hotspur boss Tim Sherwood is the early favourite to take over at the Baggies There are hurdles to overcome with both men. Pulis, 56, would provide an experienced hand in West Brom’s battle against the drop – having performed a similar role remarkably with Crystal Palace last season – but would insist on control of transfers. That would represent a significant departure for Peace from his current continental model, where technical director Terry Burton, only appointed last summer, identifies recruits. Pulis, who is understood to have been contacted late on Monday night, is also likely want trusted assistants David Kemp and Gerry Francis to join the Hawthorns staff. Tony Pulis - seen here working for BT Sport - is also in the frame for the West Brom job Defender Lescott looks dejected after West Brom conceded the second goal to Stoke on Sunday Sherwood came close to landing the job last summer before talks broke down over wages and his desire to bring in assistants Les Ferdinand and Chris Ramsey. However, an agreement could be reached this time round with stances potentially softening on both sides. Sherwood, 45, has been out of work for nearly eight months since leaving Tottenham and West Brom have yet to offer a public assurance to current assistant Keith Downing over his future. Peace’s determination to remain in the Barclays Premier League is the overriding factor in this situation.",
  "summary": "West Brom have only won once in their last nine Premier League games Alan Irvine was subjected to barrage of abuse after 2-0 defeat by Stoke Chairman Jeremy Peace sacked Irvine on Monday night Tim Sherwood is the early favourite to take charge at The Hawthorns Tony Pulis is also in the frame for the Baggies job",
  "translate": "West Brom chỉ giành chiến thắng một lần trong chín trận đấu cuối cùng ở Premier League, Alan Irvine đã phải chịu sự lạm dụng sau thất bại 2-0 của Chủ tịch Stoke Jeremy Peace đã sa thải Irvine vào tối thứ Hai Tim Sherwood là người yêu thích ban đầu để chịu trách nhiệm tại Hawthorns Tony Pulis cũng nằm trong khung cho công việc baggies"
}