{
  "news": "By Nick Enoch PUBLISHED: 02:19 EST, 4 May 2013 | UPDATED: 11:13 EST, 4 May 2013 The final day of a Chinese May Day holiday ended in terror for more than 20 people - including children and the elderly - after they fell into a river when a bamboo suspension bridge suddenly tilted. About 40 revellers were returning from a bonfire party to celebrate International Workers' Day on Peach Blossom island in Fenghuang, central Hunan province at 9.20pm on Wednesday evening. As they crowded onto the bridge at the popular tourist town, a loaded pile broke, causing a cable to snap and the bridge floor to tilt. Twenty-four people then plunged into the fast-flowing water, which is about 1.2m deep. Scroll down for video This was the scene the morning after 24 people fell into a fast-flowing river when a bamboo suspension bridge suddenly tilted in Hunan province, China A group of about 40 tourists - including children and the elderly - were returning from a bonfire party to celebrate International Workers' Day on Peach Blossom Island in Fenghuang on Wednesday evening People wait on the riverbank after the incident, at 9.20pm. Fifteen tourists managed to swim to safety, while the others were all rescued The county's deputy head, Cai Long, said 15 people managed to climb onto the river bank and the others were rescued, according to Xinhua news agency. They were taken to hospital for examination, where two are being treated for minor injuries. One witness said the party-goers had not rocked the bridge in excitement, contrary to earlier reports. Instead, a town official urged them to cross it as soon as possible since the bridge was swaying at that time. Yang Zhi, who runs the Boyazhai Hotel in the town, reckoned there were around 200 tourists on the bridge at the time it tilted. One witness said the party-goers had not rocked the bridge in excitement, contrary to earlier reports Rescuers search for the missing tourists. All who fell in were taken to hospital for examination, where two are being treated for minor injuries 'People were crossing the bridge over the Tuojiang River on their way back to the ancient town from the island,' he said. All entertainment events in the area have been suspended for safety checks, China News Service reported. Wednesday marked the end of China’s three-day May Day holiday. The tourists’ nationalities weren’t specified, but they are most likely Chinese. As the group crowded onto the bridge at the popular tourist town, a loaded pile broke, causing the bridge floor to tilt The tourists' nationalities weren't specified, but they are most likely to be Chinese Wednesday marked the end of China's three-day May Day holiday. All entertainment events in the town have been suspended for safety checks",
  "summary": "About 40 revellers were returning from a bonfire party to celebrate International Workers' Day Incident occurred in Fenghuang, central Hunan province at 9.20pm on Wednesday evening As they crowded onto bridge at popular tourist town, a loaded pile broke 15 managed to swim to the riverbank, while others were rescued All survived but two remain in hospital with minor injuries",
  "translate": "Khoảng 40 người vui chơi đã trở về từ một bữa tiệc lửa trại để kỷ niệm sự cố Ngày của Công nhân Quốc tế xảy ra ở Fenghuang, tỉnh miền trung Hunan lúc 9h20 tối thứ Tư khi họ chen chúc trên cầu tại thị trấn du lịch nổi tiếng, một đống được tải đã phá vỡ 15 người đã bơi đến bờ sông , trong khi những người khác được giải cứu thì tất cả đều sống sót nhưng hai người vẫn ở trong bệnh viện bị thương nhẹ"
}