{
  "news": "Time is running out for women who want to conceive at 35 or older as age is one of the major causes of infertility, warns a Queensland's IVF expert. This follows a new study which revealed a concerning number of Australian women who lacked awareness about their fertility. It showed that many women wrongly believed that IVF was a 'safety net' but in fact need to start trying early if they want to start a family, Queensland Fertility Group medical director David Molloy said. Women should start conceiving before they hit their mid-30s and shouldn't rely on IVF, says a Queensland IVF expert The survey of 1000 women, released today by IVFAustralia, Melbourne IVF and Queensland Fertility Group, found a shocking 64 per cent of respondents didn't know their fertility would decline rapidly from 36 onwards. It also showed 60 per cent of women thought that infertility in their 40s can be resolved through IVF. However this is a complete misconception. Dr Molloy said IVF doesn't guarantee pregnancy as success rates rapidly decline for aging women. Women who want children need to plan ahead and try to have their first child early, says Dr David Molly 'Your highest chance of success having a child will be if you can conceive before the age of 35. One of the most common reasons we see patients is age-related infertility, they are basically a modern woman – educated and a valuable addition to the workforce, but what has suffered is their fertility,' Dr Molloy told The Courier Mail. 'If you put a 34-year-old through an IVF program, the chance of getting pregnant on a single treatment cycle is in excess of 40 per cent.' 'When we put a 40-year-old through an IVF program, the pregnancy rate is about 20 per cent.' Karyn Reardon, now mother of two, was 29 when she and husband Gerard first tried to start having children. 'It took me eight challenging years to produce my first baby – if I had waited until after 35, perhaps it would never have happened,' she said. After several rounds of IVF she gave birth to her first child Flyn, 8, at 37 years of age and Ostyn, 4, at 40. She echoed the views of Dr Molloy and urged women start early if they want to start a family. A recent national study shows that 60 per cent of women wrongly believed infertility in their 40s can be resolved through IVF",
  "summary": "A recent study reveals that 64 per cent of 1000 surveyed Australian women didn't know their fertility would decline rapidly from 36 onwards 60 per cent of respondents thought infertility in their 40s can be resolved through IVF IVF doesn't guarantee pregnancy as success rates rapidly decline among aging women said Queensland Fertility Group medical director David Molloy",
  "translate": "Một nghiên cứu gần đây cho thấy rằng 64 % trong số 1000 phụ nữ Úc được khảo sát không biết khả năng sinh sản của họ sẽ giảm nhanh chóng từ 36 trở đi, 60 % số người được hỏi cho rằng vô sinh ở những năm 40 của họ có thể được giải quyết thông qua IVF IVF không đảm bảo mang thai vì tỷ lệ thành công nhanh chóng Sự suy giảm ở phụ nữ già cho biết Giám đốc y tế của Tập đoàn sinh sản Queensland David Molloy"
}