{
  "news": "Misguided teen: Skylar Murphy, 18, brought a pipe bomb to Edmonton International Airport It has been revealed the airport inspectors who permitted an 18-year-old man caught at Edmonton International Airport to board a plane tried to give the explosive device back to him. Skylar Murphy, from suburban Edmonton, was caught Sept 20 by security screeners with a pipe bomb. Despite a fuse at least nine-feet-long sticking out of one side. He made the bomb by taking gun powder stolen from bullets owned by an Alberta Sheriff set to marry his mother, according to the CBC. Authorities have said the man had no idea the bullets were stolen, he has been cleared of any wrongdoing. Royal Canadian Mounted Police and the judge in Mr Murphy's case say they believe him bringing the bomb to the airport was an accident based on how shocked he was in surveillance video, the CBC reported. The steel pipe bomb was filled with black powder and appeared to be functional. Airport Security inspectors first tried to return it to the teen before setting aside and neglecting to tell RCMP about it for four days, according to the CBC. Mr Murphy told officers when he was arrested that he planned to 'blow up a shed for fun,' according to a court transcript. The misguided teen received one year of probation, was order to pay $500 to the burn unit of a local hospital and also a $100 fine, according to the CBC. Black powder and a pipe bomb were found in Mr Murphy’s luggage by Canadian Air Transport Security Authority screeners, but they did not detain him or immediately alert authorities because they are not permitted to, according to a CATSA official. ‘Screening officers do not have the authority to apprehend or detain passengers,’ CATSA spokesman Mathieu Larocque told the CBC in a statement. ‘When they see something potentially illegal, the(y) contact the police.’ The Royal Canadian Mounted Police were not contacted until four days later, Mr Murphy was arrested when returned to Edmonton Sept 27. The lax approach to ensuring the safety of fliers infuriated the country’s top transportation official. ‘This individual should not have been allowed to board his flight, and it is unacceptable that CATSA waited four days before seeking the RCMP’s assistance,’ Transport Minister Lisa Raitt told the National Post. Mr Larocque declined to comment further about the incident, saying only that ‘for security reasons, I can’t go into details about our procedures at the checkpoint, which include our protocols with the police.’ 'A breakdown': A CATSA spokesperson told MailOnline there was a breakdown in security procedures - 'we should have called the police... we didn't' Mr Larocque separately admitted to MailOnline that was a procedural breakdown. 'We saw something unusual in his bag… we should have called the police right away, we didn’t.' A call to the RCMP’s Edmonton Airport detachment was shuffled to an airport spokesperson. The RCMP officer who answered the phone said Mounties are not publicly commenting on the incident. An airport spokesperson also declined to comment. A message left with the Crown Prosecutor's office was not returned. The lack of public comment on the incident has not gone unnoticed. ‘Everyone is dodging the bullet,’ a security expert told CTV. ‘No one wants to take responsibility for what is obviously a series of mistakes.’ Except for Mr Murphy, he pleaded guilty last month to possession of an explosive substance. Edmonton is the eighth busiest airport in Canada with just over one million passengers per year.",
  "summary": "Skylar Murphy was caught Sept 20 with a pipe bomb at Edmonton International Airport Screeners tried to give it back to the teen despite a NINE-FOOT fuse sticking out of one side He reportedly made the bomb by stealing bullets from his mother's fiancee - the soon-to-be stepfather is an Alberta Sheriff Mr Murphy was arrested one week later and told police he forgot it was in his bag, a source said He received only probation",
  "translate": "Skylar Murphy bị bắt vào ngày 20 tháng 9 với một quả bom ống tại các nhà sàng lọc sân bay quốc tế Edmonton đã cố gắng trả lại cho thiếu niên mặc dù có một cầu chì dài chín feet ra khỏi một bên, anh ta đã làm bom bằng cách đánh cắp đạn từ vị hôn thê của mẹ anh ta- sớm- cha dượng là một cảnh sát trưởng của Alberta, ông Murphy đã bị bắt một tuần sau đó và nói với cảnh sát rằng anh ta quên nó ở trong túi của mình, một nguồn tin cho biết anh ta chỉ nhận được quản chế"
}