{
  "news": "Senior Lib Dems are plotting to sign up to David Cameron’s pledge for an EU referendum – in exchange for constitutional reforms. At least three ministers have privately called for a dramatic shift to back the Prime Minister’s plan for an in/out vote on Britain’s place in Europe by 2017. But in the event of a second coalition with the Conservatives, they would insist on a system of proportional representation in local government elections – and a fresh attempt to replace the House of Lords with an elected Senate. Scroll down for video The Prime Minister has suggested he would like to have an in/out vote on Britain’s place in Europe by 2017 Despite Nick Clegg refusing to support an EU referndum, at least three of his senior colleagues have called to back the PM's position in exchange for a system of proportional representation in local government elections So far, Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg has refused to back Mr Cameron’s pledge to hold an in/out referendum, whether or not he succeeds in negotiating changes in the UK’s relationship with Brussels. But several of the Deputy Prime Minister’s senior colleagues believe that embracing a poll will show that the party, which was humiliated in May’s European elections, has listened to voters. Yesterday, as Mr Clegg was raising eyebrows for an inexplicable four changes of outfits during a series of TV and radio interviews, Lib Dem president Tim Farron said it was important the party does not ‘give away a referendum lightly’. A Lib Dem shift would leave Labour as the only major party opposing a poll. One expected price demanded by ministers would be to scrap the first-past-the-post voting system in local government elections. Instead, they want a system of proportional representation called the single transferable vote, under which candidates are ranked. The system favours smaller parties – and would also end the effective ‘one-party rule’ in many parts of the country. The Lib Dems also want to revive reform of the House of Lords, which stalled in Parliament partly thanks to a revolt by Conservative MPs. The Lib Dems have been branded ‘enemies of democracy’ by Tory colleagues after conspiring with Labour to kill off legislation guaranteeing plans to hold a vote on Britain’s membership of the EU. Insisting yesterday that he would ‘relish’ an EU poll only ‘when the rules change’ in Brussels, Mr Clegg said the Conservatives were ‘tearing themselves apart’ and had ‘plucked an arbitrary date’ to hold the referendum. ‘We don’t hold referenda every other Tuesday in this country,’ he said. In a sign of a split among the Lib Dems on how to proceed, Scottish Secretary Alistair Carmichael suggested a referendum would not happen unless the Tories win next year’s election outright. ‘That would of course require the Conservatives to get a majority after the next election,’ he told the Lib Dem conference in Glasgow. ‘I don’t think that’s going to happen.’",
  "summary": "Three of Nick Clegg's senior colleagues want to support PM's EU plan They want to back his in/out vote on Britain’s place in Europe by 2017 They believe position will show fragile Lib Dems have listened to voters In exchange they want proportional representation in local elections System favours smaller parties – and would end effective ‘one-party rule’ in many parts of the country But Mr Clegg is against setting a referendum date - claiming the Tories are ‘tearing themselves apart’ over the issue",
  "translate": "Ba trong số các đồng nghiệp cao cấp của Nick Clegg muốn hỗ trợ kế hoạch EU của PM mà họ muốn ủng hộ phiếu bầu vào/ngoài của mình về vị trí của Anh ở châu Âu vào năm 2017, họ tin rằng vị trí sẽ cho thấy Lib Dems mong manh đã lắng nghe cử tri để đổi lấy họ muốn đại diện theo tỷ lệ trong hệ thống bầu cử địa phương ủng hộ các bên nhỏ hơn - và sẽ chấm dứt 'quy tắc một đảng' hiệu quả ở nhiều nơi trên đất nước nhưng ông Clegg đang chống lại việc thiết lập một ngày trưng cầu dân ý - tuyên bố Tories đang 'xé nát chính mình' về vấn đề này"
}