{
  "news": "By Daily Mail Reporter PUBLISHED: 04:08 EST, 13 November 2012 | UPDATED: 08:31 EST, 13 November 2012 Vandals defaced a war memorial with jihadist graffiti just hours after Veterans Day services were held at the site. The vandal scrawled 'Canada will burn; Praise Allah' in black marker pen across a memorial sculpture in Coronation Park, Toronto. It came just a few hours after anti-war protesters interrupted the two minute silence during the ceremony at Toronto's Old City Hall Sunday morning by chanting slogans. Clean up: Council workers inToronto scrub jihadist graffiti off a war memorial in Coronation Park Police are now hunting for the culprits of what they are describing as a 'hate crime'. Detective Anthony Williams told the Toronto Sun: 'The veterans should be respected. That’s a total disrespect for our sworn members and military members who have made the ultimate sacrifice.' City cleaners had to scrub the memorial to remove the graffiti on Monday morning. George Murphy, 72, whose father fought in the Battle of Monte Cassino and in Normandy during the Second World War, was left distraught by the sight of the vandalised memorial. He said: 'I think it’s terrible to see them destroy what these veterans have done for us. It’s like stepping on them. These people wanted to protect our lives. My father would be very upset over this.' 'Upsetting': Vandals wrote 'Canada will burn; Praise Allah' in black marker pen over the memorial on Remembrance Sunday Graffiti was spotted just a few hours after anti-war protesters chanted slogans throughout the Remembrance Day two minute silence in the city John McEwen, 67, built the memorial in 1995 to symbolise the military contributions of Canada since World War I. He said: 'Do I take it personally? No, and I don’t think the veterans should take it personally. Stupidity isn’t even politics. Stupidity is ignorance and ignorance is an indulgence in a place where you don’t know what’s going on.' Officers are also investigating other vandalism where 'Holy Jihad' was written over a sign near the memorial in black marker.",
  "summary": "Vandals wrote 'Canada will burn; Praise Allah' on memorial sculpture Came after anti-war protesters interrupted two minute silence during Remembrance Day ceremony at Toronto's Old City Hall",
  "translate": "Vandals đã viết 'Canada sẽ cháy; Khen ngợi Allah 'về tác phẩm điêu khắc tưởng niệm được đưa ra sau khi những người biểu tình chống chiến tranh làm gián đoạn hai phút im lặng trong buổi lễ kỷ niệm ngày tại Tòa thị chính cũ của Toronto"
}