{
  "news": "House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi is set to appoint a Muslim lawmaker to the Intelligence Committee, congressional aides said Tuesday, giving him access to some of America's most closely held secrets in the war on terror. The move will come as the world is still grappling with an al-Qaeda death squad's massacre last week of journalists at the French satire magazine Charlie Hebdo, executed because they had published a cartoon of the Muslim prophet Muhammad. Rep. André Carson has attracted suspicion for his public statements, including a 2012 Islamic Circle of North America convention where he said America's schools should be modelled after Qur'anic madrassas. Moments later he warned undercover law enforcement skulking around the event looking for 'secret meetings' that 'Allah will not allow you to stop us.' SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO Rep. Andre Carson told a Muslim conference in 2012 that American schools should follow the model of Islamic madrassas and warned undercover law enforcement that 'Allah will not allow you to stop us' FRIEND OF BARACK: President Obama took Carson with him on Air Force One in May 2011 when he spoke about transportation policy in Indianapolis; he's a reliable voice on the Democratic party's left flank and one of only two Muslim members of Congress Carson, a former police officer, represents Indiana's 7th District, an urban area that includes most of Indianapolis. He is one of only two Muslim members of Congress, the other being Minnesota Democrat Keith Ellison. Voters sent him to Congress in a 2008 special election following the death of his grandmother, who held the seat before him. He was already a member of the House Armed Services subcommittee on intelligence, and once worked for the Department of Homeland Security’s 'Fusion Center' – a data-sharing hub that merges intelligence collected by the CIA, the FBI, the Pentagon and the Justice Department. But his elevation to the House Intelligence Committee, first reported by Politico, will cause rumbles among lawmakers who charge that the U.S. government – particularly the Obama administration – has studiously avoided linking Islam with the steady stream of deadly attacks that plague Europe, Africa and the Middle East. At the 2012 Islamic convention in Hartford, Connecticut, Carson said that 'America will never tap into educational innovation and ingenuity without looking at the model that we have in our madrassas, in our schools, where innovation is encouraged, where the foundation is the Qu'ran.' 'And that model that we are pushing in some of our schools meets the multiple needs of students.' He drew applause when he acknowledged the presence of undercover federal law enforcement in the audience – agents who were drawn to the event because of the high concentration of Muslim leaders. 'There are over 7 million Muslims in this country,' Carson told the crowd. 'And while we are under attack, we cannot retreat.' 'It's unfortunate that there are those who are thinking that, at this convention right now, we're having secret meetings, that we're plotting to destroy this country. But I say to those who are here undercover: Allah will not allow you to stop us.' After the speech made headlines, Carson's office released a statement saying he was misunderstood – and meant his remarks as a broad endorsement of religious education. 'Faith-based schools throughout this country have excelled because of innovative instructional methods and a willingness to engage different learning styles – whether visual, auditory, or kinesthetic,' he said. 'While I do not believe that any particular faith should be the foundation of our public schools, it is important that we take note of the instructional tools these schools utilize to empower their young people. Christian, Jewish, and Islamic schools have experienced notable success by casting off a one-size-fits-all approach to education, and this is a model we must replicate.' Carson was raised in a Baptist family, attended parochial schools, and converted to Islam as an adult in 1998. MADAME MINORITY LEADER: Nancy Pelosi, a former House speaker and the chamber's highest ranking Democrat, has reportedly decided to give Carson a slot on the all-knowing intelligence committee Although he was quick to backtrack on his advice about madrassas, Carson has never publicly addressed his comments about violent extremism and law enforcement's ability to stop it. Carson's press secretary did not immediately respond to a request for comment. In a Huffington Post interview two months ago, he reflected on his time as a police officer assigned to track terrorism and conduct counter-intelligence. 'What I learned is that in the U.S., as in the UK, it is impossible to fight the threat of global terror without help from Muslims,' the congressman said. 'But there is a problem with institutional bigotry.' Carson also claimed that 'xenophobia has become exacerbated because of extremist elements [within Islam], but I still say that Muslims have to take control of our own destiny and to reclaim our destiny we have to engage in a political process.'",
  "summary": "Indiana Democratic Rep. André Carson will soon sit on a legislative committee where some of America's most precious secrets are examined The former policeman converted to Islam as an adult and is one of only two Muslim members of Congress He attracted scorn with a 2012 speech in which he said American schools would be more innovative if they were more like Islamic madrassas Carson claimed he was misunderstood but never addressed another line in the speech that seemed to taunt undercover agents who were present 'Allah will not allow you to stop us,' he said",
  "translate": "Đại diện Dân chủ Indiana André Carson sẽ sớm ngồi trong một ủy ban lập pháp nơi một số bí mật quý giá nhất của nước Mỹ được kiểm tra cựu cảnh sát viên được chuyển đổi sang Hồi giáo khi trưởng thành và là một trong hai thành viên Hồi giáo của Quốc hội, ông đã thu hút sự khinh miệt với bài phát biểu năm 2012 trong đó Ông nói rằng các trường học ở Mỹ sẽ sáng tạo hơn nếu họ giống như Hồi giáo Madrassas Carson tuyên bố rằng ông đã bị hiểu lầm nhưng không bao giờ giải quyết một dòng khác trong bài phát biểu dường như chế nhạo các đặc vụ bí mật có mặt 'Allah sẽ không cho phép bạn ngăn chặn chúng tôi', ông nói"
}