{
  "news": "An iPod nano was turned into a spy camera and taped to a cashpoint by thieves in a bid to steal unsuspecting user's bank details. The Apple device was found by police attached to the hole-in-the wall in Northenden Road in Gatley, Stockport, Greater Manchester. They discovered that the iPod nano had been turned into a camera and attached to the ATM using duct tape and a fake plastic case was added. Th iPod nano that had been attached to a cash machine and was being used as spy camera by scammers The Apple device was found attached to this cash machine in Stockport, Greater Manchester The find prompted Greater Manchester Police to issue a warning on the social networking site Twitter. They said: 'Reports of an ATM in #Gatley being found with a card reader and mini camera attached to it. Be vigilant when using them....It was the one on Northenden Road. 'From experience they tend to leave the devices on for only a short time...First pic shows the ATM with devices attached. The spy camera attached to the cash machine in Stockport, Greater Manchester The fake front that had been attached to the cash machine by fraudsters 'Second the fake front. Third pic shows the camera. We find most of them in the evening. They are usually placed near pubs and restaurants etc.' The scam involves taping an iPod to the roof of a cash machine. A loop of plastic is placed into the card slot, which then traps any card put in the machine. The fake plastic front while it was still in position on the cash machine Customers believe their card has been retained by the machine and when they walk away the thief removes the device and steals the card. The thieves then watch footage from the iPod of the customer entering their personal identification (PIN) number. It is not yet known if anyone fell victim to the crooks' device. No arrests were believed to have been made. Anyone with information was asked to contact police on 101 or Crimestoppers,anonymously, on 0800 555111.",
  "summary": "Ipod nano was turned into a spy camera and attached to ATM in Stockport The Apple device would enable thieves to capture users bank details Greater Manchester Police issued a warning as they hunted the fraudsters It was not known whether anyone had fallen victim to the scam",
  "translate": "IPod Nano đã bị biến thành một camera gián điệp và gắn vào ATM trong Stockport, thiết bị của Apple sẽ cho phép những kẻ trộm bắt giữ người dùng chi tiết về Ngân hàng Manchester đã đưa ra cảnh báo khi họ săn lùng những kẻ lừa đảo, người ta không biết liệu có ai trở thành nạn nhân của vụ lừa đảo"
}