{
  "news": "By Eleanor Crooks, Press Association James Ward fell in the final round of qualifying at the US Open for the second straight year. The British number two has been in arguably the best form of his career and arrived in New York at a career-high ranking of 131. He looked to have a golden chance to complete his set of grand slam main draw appearances against world No 205 Radu Albot, but it was the Moldovan who came through 6-1, 3-6, 6-2. Heading home: Great Britain's James Ward suffered defeat in US Open qualifying to Radu Albot Ward made a faltering start and comprehensively dropped the first set to the consistent Albot. He fought back well in the second and they had played one game of the third when rain began to fall and kept the pair away from the court for two hours. It was an untimely break for Ward and he never got going on the resumption, throwing in a poor game to be broken for 3-1. In the stands: Great Britain Davis Cup captain Leon Smith watches Ward go out at Flushing Meadows Albot was denied victory on his first match point by the umpire's over-rule but took his second to clinch a deserved win and a spot in the main draw of a grand slam for the first time. It has been a disappointing qualifying tournament for the British players, with the other four entrants all losing in the first round. Ward must now hope for withdrawals from the main draw that would give him a chance of getting in as a lucky loser. Ireland's James McGee defied cramp and missed opportunities to defeat Zhang Ze and qualify for the main draw of the US Open. It is the first time the 27-year-old has come through qualifying at a grand slam and there was no shortage of drama on a packed Court 8 at Flushing Meadows during his 0-6 6-4 6-4 victory.",
  "summary": "Ward was beaten 6-1, 3-6, 6-2 by world No 205 Radu Albot, of Moldova The Brit fought back to level the match after dropping the first set Ward never got going againt after a two-hour rain delay at the start of the third set It means Andy Murray is the only British player in the men's singles draw at Flushing Meadows",
  "translate": "Ward đã bị đánh bại 6-1, 3-6, 6-2 bởi World No 205 Radu Albot, của Moldova, Brit đã chiến đấu trở lại trận đấu sau khi bỏ Ward tập hợp đầu tiên không bao giờ trở lại sau khi trì hoãn mưa kéo dài hai giờ khi Bắt đầu tập thứ ba, nó có nghĩa là Andy Murray là cầu thủ duy nhất của Anh trong trận hòa đơn nam tại Flushing Meadows"
}