{
  "news": "TV presenter Kirstie Allsopp accused Argos of allowing rubbish to pile up outside its online depot She has waged war on litter bugs by naming and shaming them through a string of furious Twitter posts. Yesterday Kirstie Allsopp added Argos to her hit list by accusing the retailer of allowing rubbish to pile up outside its online depot. Yesterday Miss Allsopp, 43, shared an image of the discarded waste with her 371,000 followers. It was a snap one of her followers had sent her. And the TV presenter wrote: 'Shame on Argos '@mymbletroll: This is the usual litter outside the @Argos_Online depot'.' The photograph showed what looked like packaging and plastic bags strewn through trees and undergrowth outside Argos' depot. The red of a delivery lorry could be made out in the background. And in a string of messages Miss Allsopp explained her anger, writing: 'Everyone has a duty to clear litter, and companies should know that a littered area nearby reflects badly on them.' Some of her followers defended Argos, drawing to Miss Allsopp's attention the retailer's track record for recycling. It's catalogue is 100 per cent recyclable and it has in the past asked customers to help it cut down on plastic bag usage by 60 per cent. But Miss Allsopp replied: 'Recycling is great, but everyone has to be responsible for the space around them, businesses included.' Miss Allsopp's war on litter bugs began last year when she started exposing the worst offenders. Abandoned dog mess particularly infuriates Miss Allsopp, who is an ambassador for Keep Britain Tidy, and she backs fining litter louts. In recent weeks she has shared an article about a 'super rat' found in a man's house, writing it was evidence of 'why litter matters'. She also retweeted a post from Victoria Beckham which said 'no gum allowed,' next to an image of discarded chewing gum stuck to the sole of a shoe. And last month the Location Location Location star, who has two sons with her partner Ben Andersen, shamed one culprit who dropped rubbish out his car window, labelling him a 't*****'. It was in reference to the 'Don't be a T****r' campaign which has been used by local councils and Keep Britain Tidy to encourage people to be more responsible when disposing of their waste. She shared an image of the discarded waste with her 371,000 followers and said: 'Shame on Argos' Miss Allsopp wrote: 'The driver of this car RJ61 EWK is a tosser #teachersnottossers @KeepBritainTidy' alongside a picture of a red car taken in the dark.' In the past Miss Allsopp has said of the campaign: 'For me it's a brilliant slogan because it really sums up how terrible it is to chuck stuff out of cars. If each of us chucked a piece of litter out of our car every day we would be knee deep within weeks.' Last night a spokesman for Argos said it was 'looking into' the Tweet. The spokesman added: 'Our twitter team are trying to make contact with the person who originally shared the image.'",
  "summary": "Kirstie Allsopp accused Argos of allowing rubbish to pile up outside depot She shared an image of the discarded waste with her 371,000 followers TV presenter wrote 'Shame on Argos' and said everyone should clean litter She is an ambassador for Keep Britain Tidy and backs fining litter louts",
  "translate": "Kirstie Allsopp bị buộc tội Argos cho phép rác đổ lên bên ngoài kho, cô chia sẻ hình ảnh về chất thải bị loại bỏ với 371.000 người theo dõi truyền hình đã viết 'sự xấu hổ trên Argos' và nói rằng mọi người nên làm sạch rác Louts"
}