{
  "news": "By Daily Mail Reporter A woman whose daughter died during a police shooting is asking a judge to order authorities to diclose the name of the officer who accidentally shot her daughter. Nella Rebello, whose daughter Andrea, 21, died in May 2013 home invasion, said in a court affidavit filed on Wednesday that she has yet to be told the killer's identity. 'As of today, no one from the Police Department has ever told me who shot the bullet that killed my daughter, who was in charge when she was shot or how it came to be that they did not wait for a hostage negotiator to come and try to save her,' Rebello said. Andrea Rebello, left, was killed in May by a police officer who fired eight times at Dalton Smith, right, who had Rebello in a headlock. Seven bullets hit Smith and one hit Rebello, killing both Tragic: Andrea's boyfriend, Brad Wilson, parted ways with her after partying at a bar near the Hofstra University campus on Thursday night. He never got to say goodbye to his sweetheart before she was killed The filing is part of the Rebello family's effort to get more information from authorities, as they prepare to file a wrongful death lawsuit against Nassau County, Newsday reports. In the suit, the family alleges 'wrongful death, civil rights and negligence actions against the County of Nassau and its police officers and possibly other defendants to be named after discovery,' CBS New York reported in June. Rebello also said in the affidavit that while waiting to identify her daughter's body, she was led to believe 'it was the person who had taken her hostage that had killed her,' Newsday reports. She said police came to her home the next day, telling her a police officer killed her daughter, with no name or photo -- while giving her a picture and the name of the home intruder. Horrific: John Kourtessis, who is dating Jessica Rebello - the surviving twin sister - allegedly tried to keep the gunman calm throughout the ordeal Andrea and Jessica Rebello, pictured, reportedly lived close to campus Dalton Smith, 30, allegedly followed Andrea Rebello, twin sister Jessica Rebello and her friends home from a bar, watching them spend large amounts of money on drinks celebrating the end of the semester at Hofstra University before he broke into their Uniondale home, MailOnline earlier reported. One of the residents was able to escape and call the police by telling Smith she was going to an ATM to get money. Smith reportedly had pointed a gun at Andrea Rebello's head, while holding her in a headlock and using her as a human shield when facing the responding officer. The officer fired eight shots at Smith, hitting him seven times -- with the eighth bullet hitting Andrea Rebello in the head. Both were killed, CBS New York reported. MailOnline reported earlier this year that Smith, 30, was wanted on parole violation and had a nearly 15-year arrest history prior to the May shooting. In December 2013, the Rebello family sought Nassau County records - but were shocked to hear the 'investigation is in its infancy,' family lawyer David Roth recalled. Though the police officer's name has yet to be publicly released, Nikolas Budimlic was earlier reported by the NY Post as the man responsible for Rebello's death. Budimlic, a 12-year Nassau veteran and 7-year NYPD veteran, also has his name included appears in police records given to Roth, Newsday reports. The May 2013 shooting which killed Andrea Rebello is believed to have taken place in this Uniondale home Twins Jessica and Andrea Rebello, seen in this undated Facebook photo, were startled when Dalton Smith broke into their off-campus home",
  "summary": "Nella Rebello says cops have yet to tell her name of cop who killed daughter Andrea Rebello during May 2013 home invasion Rebello family to sue Nassau County for wrongful death Earlier reports identified Nikolas Budimlic, 42, as the officer responsible Rebello family says it was told by police in December that the 'investigation is in its infancy' Andrea Rebello, 21, was a junior at Hofstra University living off-campus with her twin sister Jessica Rebello and friends Dalton Smith, 30, apparently broke into the home after following the Rebello twins and their friends from an off-campus bar",
  "translate": "Nella Rebello nói rằng cảnh sát vẫn chưa cho biết tên của cảnh sát đã giết con gái Andrea Rebello trong tháng 5 năm 2013 Cuộc xâm lược gia đình nổi loạn tại nhà Cảnh sát vào tháng 12 rằng 'cuộc điều tra đang ở giai đoạn trứng nước' Andrea Rebello, 21 tuổi, là một thiếu niên tại Đại học Hofstra sống ngoài trường với chị gái sinh đôi Jessica Rebello và những người bạn Dalton Smith, 30 tuổi, dường như đã đột nhập vào nhà sau khi đi theo cặp song sinh nổi loạn nổi loạn và bạn bè của họ từ một quán bar ngoài trường"
}