{
  "news": "Rayan Wilson (right) has been told he can carry on claiming benefits despite being filmed playing football for a pub team in a Sunday league A man who was filmed playing football despite claiming he could often barely walk has been found not guilty of a £50,000 benefit fraud. Rayan Wilson, 29, has the rare genetic blood condition sickle-cell anaemia. He was granted the top rate of disability living allowance in 2003 after telling Department for Work and Pensions officials he often had to crawl rather than walk. However, assessors became suspicious in 2011 when he told them he was working in injury rehabilitation at Bristol Rovers Football Club for three to seven hours a week. Investigators then filmed him making slide-tackles as star midfielder for a pub team in a Sunday football league. Mr Wilson told Bristol Crown Court that his condition fluctuates and on many days he can only walk six to eight yards. Prosecuting, Francisca Da Costa said: ‘He was observed playing football, running, jumping, making sliding tackles.’ But Tom Wainwright, defending, gave evidence from sickle-cell doctors that Mr Wilson’s condition – in which the blood cannot carry enough oxygen – is variable. His clinical coordinator, Dr Mark Critchley, said Mr Wilson was admitted to hospital 19 times between 2003 and 2013. His clinical coordinator Dr Mark Critchley said Mr Wilson was telling the truth, and had been admitted to hospital 19 times between 2003 and 2013. Judge Michael Longman directed the jury to find him not guilty of three charges of dishonest representation from 2003 to 2011. Mr Wilson, of Bristol, said: ‘I’m relieved. I had no reason to lie. I hope the case raises the profile for people with sickle cell.’ Miss Da Costa added: 'He did not present with the medical difficulties he described.' Mr Wilson convinced a judge that his sickle cell condition was 'fluctuating' and that on some days he was able to play football, but that on others he was unable to walk more than 19ft",
  "summary": "Rayan Wilson, 29, suffers from sickle cell anaemia Genetic blood condition causes red cells to develop abnormally which can cause attacks of pain typically lasting between one and five days Mr Wilson said on most days he was unable to walk more than 19ft However he was investigated for fraud after saying he worked in injury rehabilitation for Bristol Rovers Football Club Mr Wilson was then filmed playing Sunday league football However he won his case after persuading a judge condition 'varied' Mr Wilson says he plans to start claiming again as soon as he can",
  "translate": "Rayan Wilson, 29 tuổi, bị tình trạng máu di truyền thiếu máu hồng cầu hình liềm khiến các tế bào đỏ phát triển bất thường có thể gây ra các cơn đau thường kéo dài giữa một đến năm ngày vì gian lận sau khi nói rằng anh ta làm việc phục hồi chức năng chấn thương cho câu lạc bộ bóng đá Bristol Rovers, ông Wilson sau đó đã được quay phim bóng đá Chủ nhật"
}