{
  "news": "By David Kent Rory McIlroy's new potential love interest was lucky to escape serious injury after flipping her car six times in a serious motorway crash. Nadia Forde has been spotted out with McIlroy in Dublin following his split with world number 15 tennis star Caroline Wozniacki but was lucky to walk away unscathed after a wet weather smash in Warwickshire. The 25-year-old model lost control of her Fiat 500 in rainy conditions on the M40 before crashing into the motorway's central reservation and flipping the vehicle six times. VIDEO Scroll down to watch Rory McIlroy try a different approach to playing over water Lucky escape: Rory McIlroy will be relieved to hear that his new love interest Nadia Forde is safe and sound Interruption: McIlroy, seen here at the Scottish Open, has been preparing for the start of The Open Just friends? Forde has tried to cool talk of a relationship despite being seen spending time with McIlroy Forde was taken to hospital as a precaution in the early hours of Sunday morning due to a blow to the head but was later discharged. Her spokesman said: 'Her guardian angel was working overtime. It was a real scare and the car was a complete write-off, but she is fine.' The singer is expected to take time out from promotional work for her new single as she recovers from shock. McIlroy is busy preparing for The Open, which he begins as third favourite on Thursday. When asked about the crash he said: 'I saw she was [in car crash]. If anyone's in a car crash you're glad to see they're ok. She's ok and that's good.' Top form: McIlroy will go into The Open as third favourite on Thursday Write caption here",
  "summary": "Rory McIlory split with tennis star Caroline Wozniacki in May He has been seen out with 25-year-old model and singer Nadia Forde She says they have 'been in each other's company' Forde lost control of vehicle in heavy rain on M40 in Warwickshire Her Fiat 500 veered into the central reservation before flipping Forde walked away from the crash after a quick hospital check McIlory's preparations for The Open may have been interrupted",
  "translate": "Chia tay với ngôi sao tennis Caroline Wozniacki vào tháng 5, anh đã được nhìn thấy với người mẫu 25 tuổi và ca sĩ Nadia Forde, cô nói rằng họ đã ở trong công ty của nhau Fiat 500 đi vào đặt phòng trung tâm trước khi lật Forde rời khỏi vụ tai nạn sau khi một bệnh viện nhanh chóng kiểm tra các chế phẩm của McIlory cho việc mở có thể đã bị gián đoạn"
}