{
  "news": "A foster father who confessed to multiple instances of abuse against his disabled foster child is set to spend years behind bars. Dr. Dennis Sullivan faces a prison sentence of 43 months which was handed down on Friday, Forum News Service reported. The 51-year-old Benedict, Minnesota resident earlier entered a guilty plea on August 25 for attempted first-degree assault, according to the media outlet. Foster father: Dr. Dennis Sullivan faces a prison sentence of 43 months after he entering a guilty plea for attempted first-degree assault toward his 10-year-old foster child On that day, Sullivan reportedly confessed to covering his 10-year-old foster son's mouth with his hand on June 17 after jamming a latex glove in his mouth, Forum News Service reported. The boy 'was blind, wheelchair-bound and severely mentally disabled,' the media outlet reported. The Associated Press reported that a criminal complaint said Sullivan's wife claimed to discover Sullivan together with the child, who was having trouble breathing. The complaint reportedly said that after the foster father tucked the glove into a pocket Sullivan's wife 'asked him what he was doing. Sullivan responded that he did not know.' Admissions: Sullivan reportedly confessed to the abuse during an August 25 session at Hubbard County District Courthouse, pictured The complaint also said Sullivan's wife pressed her husband 'if this had happened before and he said \"three more times\" in the immediate past and he only \"put his hand over (the child’s) mouth for one minute.\"' Authorities later apprehended Sullivan at a North Dakota mental health center, The Associated Press reported. Forum News Serivce said that 'During the investigation, Sullivan admitted to torturing the boy in the genital area a month before the June incident.' In June, The Park Rapids Enterprise reported 'an amended complaint states the man tied a shoestring around the boy’s scrotum May 17.'",
  "summary": "Dr. Dennis Sullivan confessed to multiple instances of abuse against his disabled foster child He faces a prison sentence of 43 months and entered a guilty plea on August 25 for attempted first-degree assault Sullivan reportedly confessed to covering his 10-year-old foster son's mouth with his hand on June 17 after putting a latex glove in his mouth The boy is blind and uses a wheelchair When his wife found him, Sullivan allegedly said he tried covering the boy's mouth on three other occasions",
  "translate": "Tiến sĩ Dennis Sullivan đã thú nhận nhiều trường hợp lạm dụng đối với đứa con người khuyết tật của mình, anh ta phải đối mặt với án tù 43 tháng và nhận tội vào ngày 25 tháng 8 vì đã cố gắng tấn công cấp độ một Miệng bằng tay vào ngày 17 tháng 6 sau khi đặt một chiếc găng tay cao su vào miệng, cậu bé bị mù và sử dụng xe lăn khi vợ tìm thấy anh ta, Sullivan bị cáo buộc nói rằng anh ta đã cố gắng che miệng cậu bé trong ba lần khác"
}