{
  "news": "By Associated Press and Alexandra Klausner An austic 6-year-old boy is safe after driving his toy ATV onto a New York City highway Authorities say the child rode the miniature battery-powered toy onto the Bronx River Parkway around 7 p.m. on Sunday. He was on an outing with his family in a Mount Vernon park when he disappeared. Relatives immediately notified police. On the road: An autistic 6-year-old boy drove a miniature battery-powered ATV onto the Bronx River Parkway and was pulled over by good Samaritans on Sunday night, authorities said Road tripper: A 6-year-old boy drove a miniature battery-powered ATV onto the Bronx River Parkway and luckily he didn't get hurt The Journal News says that Westchester County police began receiving 911 calls less than an hour later about the boy. Police say he drove his Power Wheels brand ATV on a street near the park and took a ramp onto the parkway headed northbound. He drove down to Oak Street from a park near Seventh Avenue and taken to a ramp onto the northbound parkway, reported Lohud.com. Police say three motorists slowed their vehicles and surrounded the boy to protect him from other vehicles. They say one got out and grabbed the boy. 'These good Samaritans got him to the safety of the side of the road,'said a police spokesman. He was taken to Montefiore Mount Vernon hospital and found to be OK. He was later reunited with his family. Vroom vroom: The trip started off in a city park around 7 p.m. when family members lost track of the boy, who rode off in the toy vehicle",
  "summary": "Authorities say the child rode the miniature battery-powered toy onto the Bronx River Parkway around 7 p.m. on Sunday He was on an outing with his family in a Mount Vernon park when he disappeared Good Samaritans pulled over the boy and saved him from injury",
  "translate": "Các nhà chức trách cho biết đứa trẻ cưỡi đồ chơi chạy bằng pin thu nhỏ trên đường sông Bronx vào khoảng 7 giờ tối. Vào Chủ nhật, anh ấy đã đi chơi với gia đình trong Công viên Núi Vernon khi anh ấy biến mất"
}