{
  "news": "Manchester City manager Manuel Pellegrini may regret labelling Arsenal forward Alexis Sanchez 'the best player in English football' come Sunday when the two Chileans meet at the Etihad. Sanchez looked relaxed ahead of their match against the Barclays Premier League champions during a training session held by manager Arsene Wenger on Saturday. The former Barcelona forward moved to the Emirates for £30million during the summer's transfer window, and Pellegrini knows the 26-year-old is Arsenal's chief threat. Alexis Sanchez of Arsenal pictured during a training session on Saturday ahead of their Sunday showdown Manchester City manager Manuel Pellegrini labelled Arsenal's Sanchez 'the best player in English football' Sanchez looked relaxed ahead of their match against the Premier League champions during training Manchester City wanted to sign Arsenal star Alexis Sanchez but champions could not beat Financial Fair Play rules CLICK HERE TO READ THE FULL STORY The 61-year-old said: 'I think Alexis is a very good player, he is having a very good season in England. 'It is not easy for a player in his first season here to score so many goals, (but) Alexis is repeating what he did in the last two seasons at Barcelona and scoring a lot of goals. 'I am very happy for him because he is a young player and a very enthusiastic player and improving. The football fans in Chile are very happy for him and for the country.' Sunday's super showdown could potentially see Sanchez go up against City's own Argentinian talisman Sergio Aguero, but Pellegrini isn't keen to compare the two. Mathieu Flamini of Arsenal comes out for the training session on Saturday with his team-mates Laurent Koscielny goes for the ball during Arsenal's training session ahead of facing Manchester City Theo Walcott is tackled by Hector Bellerin during training as Arsenal prepare for Manchester City 'I don't want to compare (Sanchez) with Sergio, but the fans will be excited to see both teams,' he continued. 'Both teams play very attractive football and they have very good players, so we hope we will see a very good match. 'It is a very important game. Arsenal are a strong team. I always say maybe they are not top of the table but they always have high targets for every season. I hope we will have a very good game and add three more points.' A decision Wenger has to make is whether to stick with goalkeeper David Ospina ahead of Wojciech Szczesny, who was dropped after being caught smoking in the showers at Southampton. David Ospina (left) has been filling in for dropped Arsenal goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny (right) Santi Cazorla of Arsenal shoots during training as they get ready for a super Sunday showdown at the Etihad The Arsenal players have a bit of fun during their training session by playing football volleyball",
  "summary": "Manchester City manager Manuel Pellegrini labelled Arsenal forward Alexis Sanchez 'the best player in English football' The two high-profile Chileans meet at the Etihad on Sunday afternoon Sanchez has been in blistering form for Arsenal since his £30m move Arsenal have been training ahead of Sunday's Premier League match",
  "translate": "Người quản lý thành phố Manchester Manuel Pellegrini dán nhãn cho Arsenal về phía trước Alexis Sanchez 'Người chơi giỏi nhất trong bóng đá Anh', hai người Chile cao cấp gặp nhau tại Etihad vào chiều Chủ nhật, Sanchez đã ở dạng phồng rộp cho Arsenal kể từ khi anh ta di chuyển 30 triệu bảng Anh đã được đào tạo trước Trận đấu Premier League Chủ nhật"
}