{
  "news": "(CNN) -- The world's fastest man, Usain Bolt, has escaped serious injury in a car crash in his native Jamaica which wrecked his high-speed sports car. Jamaican flyer Bolt claimed 100 meters gold in Beijing in a new world record time. The IAAF, the world governing body of athletics, gave graphic details of Bolt's lucky escape on its official Web site www.iaaf.org. The 22-year-old, who was driving his BMW M3 with two female passengers, lost control and went off a rain-soaked road. The car ended up overturned in a ditch and Bolt and his passengers had to clamber out through a bed of thorns before being taken to hospital in Spanish Town, near Kingston, as a precaution. Bolt was released after three hours, with his feet strapped with bandages, after undergoing a minor operation to remove embedded thorns from his foot. He told a local reporter: \"Me good man. Me all right, a just few cuts man, me all right.\" As a result of the accident, Bolt will miss Saturday's Jamaica International Invitational meeting and is expected to be sidelined for at least a week. \"We will continue to monitor his progress over the next few days,\" Bolt's agent Ricky Simms told reporters. \"It's too early to say if this will have any impact on his training and racing program in the next few weeks.\" Bolt is also set to come to England in mid-May to run in a special 150 meters street race in Manchester. A spokesman for the organizers told CNN that they were hopeful the sprint sensation would be fit to turn up. \"We are in constant contact with his management team and everything remains on track for him to come,\" said Norman Hart. Bolt set world records in winning the 100 and 200 meters gold in the Beijing OIympics and claimed a third gold as Jamaica took the 4x100 meters relay. He was given the BMW by his sponsors as reward for his incredible success which catapulted him to global stardom.",
  "summary": "Sprinter Usain Bolt fortunate to escape from car crash in his native Jamaica The world's fastest man was taken to hospital after clambering from the wreck Bolt won three gold medals with his sensational displays in Beijing Olympics",
  "translate": "Sprinter Usain Bolt may mắn trốn thoát khỏi vụ tai nạn xe hơi ở Jamaica bản địa của mình, người đàn ông nhanh nhất thế giới đã được đưa đến bệnh viện sau khi leo lên từ xác tàu phá hủy đã giành được ba huy chương vàng với màn hình giật gân của anh ta ở Thế vận hội Bắc Kinh"
}