{
  "news": "(CNN) -- Eighteen victims of child pornography were rescued during a nationwide sweep by federal law enforcement agencies, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement announced Friday. The sweep, dubbed Operation Orion, resulted in the arrests of 190 individuals. Most of them were in the U.S., but some were in Argentina, the Philippines, Spain and the United Kingdom, ICE said in a news release. The operation took place from May 1 to May 31. The arrests were made in 33 states and Puerto Rico, authorities said. Some of the victims were residing in the homes of the persons arrested, ICE spokeswoman Danielle Bennett said. For example, a child in San Diego was photographed in a shower, and authorities made a rescue in that home, Bennett said. \"Let this operation be a warning to anyone who would think they can use the Internet to exploit children: we are out there looking for you, we will find you, and you will be prosecuted,\" ICE Director John Morton said in a statement. Morton said that as children begin summer vacations, parents should pay extra attention to how much time they spend on the Internet. \"Many of the child exploitation cases under Operation Orion began with a child or teen chatting with someone he or she met online,\" Morton said in the statement. Related stories: Interpol targets 55 suspects using social network sites for child sex abuse images Former top FBI agent charged with child porn distribution 2011: 72 charged in online global child porn ring",
  "summary": "NEW: Some of the child victims were residing in homes of adults arrested NEW: 190 people are arrested in United States and other countries NEW: Arrests are made in 33 states plus Puerto Rico NEW: A child in San Diego was photographed in a shower",
  "translate": "Mới: Một số nạn nhân trẻ em đang cư trú tại nhà của người lớn bị bắt mới: 190 người bị bắt tại Hoa Kỳ và các quốc gia khác mới: Các vụ bắt giữ được thực hiện ở 33 tiểu bang cộng với Puerto Rico mới: Một đứa trẻ ở San Diego được chụp ảnh trong phòng tắm"
}