{
  "news": "Louisville, Kentucky (CNN) -- Hillary Clinton sounded a populist tone in a fiery campaign appearance Wednesday, as she continued to unveil a political message ahead of the midterm elections. 'The other side has done everything it can to divide you,' she told several thousand raucous fans in Louisville. 'This election is about the future.' Clinton's speech comes as the former secretary of state moves back into the political sphere with a series of rallies for Democrats up this midterm cycle. On Wednesday, she rallied supporters of Alison Lundergan Grimes, who is challenging Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell in a high-profile race. 'Let's put another crack in the glass ceiling, and elect this incredible young woman to the United States Senate,' Clinton exhorted the cheering audience. Clinton criticized McConnell and politicians in Washington for causing gridlock and slowing economic growth, and she lamented the avalanche of money outside groups are dumping into the midterm elections. She urged Kentuckians to send a new voice to the Senate. Some of her biggest applause lines centered on pocketbook issues such as raising the minimum wage and equal pay. 'Isn't it amazing that it's 2014, and we are still debating whether women deserve equal pay for equal work?' she asked. 'If there's only one reason that will motivate you to go vote in the next 20 days, put that at the top of the list.' Clinton's visit to Kentucky comes a day after the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee said it would stop running ads in support of Grimes. On Thursday, Clinton heads to Michigan to campaign for Senate candidate Gary Peters and gubernatorial candidate Mark Schauer.",
  "summary": "Hillary Clinton argued that Republicans are trying to divide voters at a Kentucky event She's supporting Alison Lundergan Grimes, a Democrat challenging Mitch McConnell Clinton's message, as it has been at other events, was heavily focused on women 'Let's put another crack in the glass ceiling,' Clinton urged voters",
  "translate": "Hillary Clinton lập luận rằng Đảng Cộng hòa đang cố gắng chia rẽ cử tri tại một sự kiện ở Kentucky. Bà ấy đang ủng hộ Alison Lundergan Grimes, một đảng viên Đảng Dân chủ thách thức thông điệp của Mitch McConnell Clinton, giống như tại các sự kiện khác, tập trung nhiều vào phụ nữ 'Hãy tạo một vết nứt khác trên trần kính ,' Clinton kêu gọi cử tri"
}