{
  "article": "By . Zoe Szathmary . A truck whizzing down a Texas highway almost killed a deputy nearby. Dash cam footage from the Dallas County Sheriff's Department shared with local media shows Deputy Christopher Loboda pulling over an Infiniti. The incident took place earlier this month on Interstate 635. Scroll down for video . Ordinary day: Deputy Loboda is seen during the traffic stop . Within an inch of his life: Loboda turns to avoid the whizzing truck . Loboda gets out of his patrol vehicle to talk to the driver, the video shows. Moments later, he has to make a quick turn when a truck drives nearby to avoid being hit. He told CBSDFW 'My thought process was think small, be small - tuck everything that I had in. Don’t leave a foot out - Pull everything away from where this vehicle is coming from.' Following the dramatic moment, Loboda is seen shaking his head at the driver's mishap. Loboda rejected the driver's attempted apology, MyFoxDFW reported. Loboda told the affiliate station 'The best thing for him, going through my mind, was just to get him back in his car and drive away.' 'I was pretty upset at the whole situation, and I knew the best thing to do was to get him back moving.' Shaken: Loboda said he 'was pretty upset at the whole situation'",
  "highlights": "Deputy Christopher Loboda pulled over an Infiniti on Interstate 635 .Dash cam footage shows Loboda getting out of his patrol vehicle to .talk to the driver .Moments later, he has to make a quick turn .when a truck drives nearby to avoid being hit .",
  "vi": "Phó Christopher Loboda đã nâng cấp chiếc xe chiếc chiếc chiếc xe chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc chiếc Nhẫn Chiếc Nhẫn Chiếc Nhẫn Chiếc Chiếc Nhẫn Chiếc Chiếc Nhẫn Chiếc Chiếc Nhẫn Chiếc Bánh Bánh Chiếc Chiếc Chiếc Chiếc Chiếc Nhẫn Infiniti trên Xa tiết Liên tiểu bang 635. Cảnh báo quay từ camera hành trình cho thấy Loboda bước ra xe cuối tuần mình sẽ nói chuyện với document. Một lúc sau, anh ta phải nhanh. Khi một chiếc xe tải chạy gần đó để tránh bị đột phá."
}