{
  "article": "By . Lizzie Parry . PUBLISHED: . 06:04 EST, 7 March 2014 . | . UPDATED: . 09:39 EST, 7 March 2014 . American football star Philip Wheeler has condemned the 'boob haters' who lashed out at his model girlfriend when she posted a picture of her breastfeeding his son. The Miami Dolphins linebacker has defended his partner Ashley Nicole, claiming she is being 'unfairly attacked' over the photograph she uploaded to her Instagram profile last month. The new mother posted the picture to her 23,000 followers showing her son feeding inside the couple's home. Proud: Model Ashley Nicole posted this picture breastfeeding her son on her Instagram account. While attracting lots of support, internet trolls criticised the image . Defence: Miami Dolphins linebacker Philip Wheeler (right) condemned all those who lashed out at Miss Nicole (left) for posting a picture breastfeeding their son. He said: 'She's a model. She takes pictures for a living' She wrote: 'Was on the way out the door but then mommy duty called... Everything stops for him! #breastisbest #natureisbeautiful' Wheeler told TMZ.com: 'I wish everybody would just leave it alone. 'She's a model. She takes pictures for a living.' He said when supermodel Gisele posted a picture of her breastfeeding her daughter Vivian in December, she received nothing but praise. The photograph is still post on Ashley's Instagram page and it is understood Miss Nicole has no plans to remove it. The image has so far attracted more than 2,000 likes from users as well as a raft of comments supporting Miss Nicole. Doting father: Wheeler, pictured with the couple's son, added: 'I wish everybody would just leave it alone' Support: The picture has received more than 2,000 likes on Instagram and attracted a raft of comments supporting Miss Nicole . User abigailhodderseaman, said: 'I'm sorry you got so much flack for posting this lovely picture. Keep up the good work!' While reesebutt, added: 'You go mama, I breastfed as well, don't let all this get you down or get to you. It's a beautiful picture and beautiful act.' Posting her reaction to negative comments, Miss Nicole posted another picture to her Instagram profile, alongside the caption: 'For all the people who had something negative to say about my post feeding my baby... #normalizebreastfeeding #getalife.' The message said: 'People always want to see your breasts, until you're feeding a baby then it's considered indecent... anyone else see the flaw in this logic?' Supermother: In December supermodel Gisele posted this picture of her breastfeeding her daughter Vivian on Instagram .",
  "highlights": "Model Ashley Nicole posted the picture on her Instagram profile last month .She wrote: 'Mommy duty called... Everything stops for him!'Image has received more than 2,000 likes and support .But internet trolls plagued the model with negative comments .Boyfriend Philip Wheeler, linebacker for the Dolphins, defended the image .He said: 'I wish everybody would just leave it alone'",
  "vi": "Người mẫu Ashley Nicole đã đăng bức ảnh lên trang cá nhân Instagram của mình vào tháng trước. Cô ấy viết: 'Nhiệm vụ của mẹ được gọi là... Mọi thứ đều dừng lại để phản đối anh ấy!'Hình ảnh đã nhận được hơn 2.000 lượt thích và ủng hộ. Nhưng những kẻ troll trên mạng đã gây khó chịu cho người mẫu bằng những bình luận tiêu cực. Bạn huấn luyện Philip Wheeler, người hỗ trợ cho Dolphins, bảo vệ hình ảnh. Anh ấy nói: 'Tôi ước mọi người sẽ để nó yên'"
}