{
  "article": "Aston Villa have been urged to appoint a manager with experience, by the man tasked with taking charge on a caretaker basis. Scott Marshall, who took training at Bodymoor Heath on Friday morning and will lead the side against Leicester City in the FA Cup on Sunday, said the circumstances were too critical for a novice. Marshall, first team coach, will step into the hot seat at Villa Park where his friend Paul Lambert once sat, assisted by goalkeeping coach Andy Marshall. Paul Lambert was sacked from his position as the manager of Aston Villa on Wednesday . Caretaker boss Scott Marshall believes that the club must appoint someone with experience in his place . 'This is a big club and it's not somewhere for someone to cut their teeth,’ Marshall said. 'It's certainly a big club and I would say there's not many things which are going to prepare you for this experience. 'I think a manager with experience is probably necessary but it's not really my decision or my call.' Marshall and Lambert have exchanged words since the latter was sacked following the 2-0 defeat to Hull that left Villa in the relegation zone. 'I've spoken to him and he's obviously disappointed,' he said. ‘He's been really good for me, he brought me in at Norwich and gave me and opportunity there and brought me here and gave me a great opportunity to work at a great club. So I'm hugely disappointed that's not going to continue.’ Christian Benteke trains for Aston Villa ahead of their clash with Leicester City on Sunday . Gabriel Agbonlahort trains on Friday afternoon at Bodymoor Heath in Birmingham .",
  "highlights": "Caretaker boss Scott Marshall to lead Aston Villa against Leicester City .He believes the club must appoint someone with experience as manager .Paul Lambert was sacked by Aston Villa on Wednesday .READ: Why Tim Sherwood could be the man to save Aston Villa .CLICK HERE for all the latest Aston Villa news .",
  "vi": "Ông chủ của người chăm sóc Scott Marshall sẽ dẫn dắt Aston Villa đấu với Leicester City. Ông tin rằng câu lạc bộ phải bổ sung một người có kinh nghiệm làm huấn luyện viên. Paul Lambert đã khiến Aston Villa bị loại ở trận thứ Tư. ĐỌC: Tại sao Tim Sherwood có thể là người quản lý Aston Villa. BẤM VÀO Ở ĐÂY để biết tất cả những tin tức mới nhất về Aston Villa."
}