{
  "article": "Eugenie Bouchard will become the new queen of Wimbledon if she wins Saturday’s final - and she is primed to surpass Maria Sharapova as the richest female athlete in the world. The 20-year-old has just over £1million in career earnings and will take home at least £880,000 from her run to the final, which she reached by beating Simona Halep 7-6, 6-2 on Thursday. VIDEO Scroll down to watch Stunning Eugenie Bouchard dazzle in Sportsmail photo shoot . Fist pump: Bouchard beat Halep in straight sets on Centre Court and will play Kvitova in the final . Changing of the guard: Bouchard (left) could surpass Sharapova (right) to become the richest female athlete . But her on-court earnings are set to be dwarfed by endorsements. ‘When Sharapova is ready to give up her crown, Bouchard will be ready to take it,’ said Rupert Pratt of sports marketing agency Generate. ‘There is no doubt she can earn tens of millions per year. Sharapova is at the top of her game commercially. 'There was a lot of hype around Anna Kournikova when she arrived and that never got backed up. You need success on the court as well for longevity. VIDEO Kvitova meets Bouchard in showpiece . Golden girl: Anna Kournikova never fulfilled her potential on the court . Social media: Bouchard keeps her army of fans updated to what she is up to away from the tennis court . Sponsorship: Endorsement deals could earn Bouchard tens of millions each year . Return: Bouchard at Wimbledon practice courts . All smiles: Bouchard enjoying herself at practice . ‘As long as Bouchard keeps doing well she will keep growing in marketability. She is Canadian and if she can open up the North America market that is highly lucrative.’ Bouchard said: ‘When you have more success, you have more requests off court. But during a tournament I don’t really pay attention to any of that stuff.’ Shining: Bouchard swept her opponent aside on Centre Court to seal a spot in Saturday's final . Embrace: Bouchard and Halep shake hands after their semi-final clash on Centre Court .",
  "highlights": "Canadian will play first Grand Slam final on Saturday against Petra Kvitova .She sealed her place in the Wimbledon final by beating Simona Halep .The 20-year-old has just over £1m in career earnings and her run to the showpiece final will earn her at least £880,000 .Sports marketing agency Generate says Bouchard can earn tens of millions through sponsorship deals each year .",
  "vi": "Người Canada sẽ chơi trận chung kết Grand Slam đầu tiên đến thứ bảy với Petra Kvitova. Cô ấy đã giành được vị trí trong trận chung kết Wimbledon nhờ đánh bại Simona Halep. Tay vợt 20 tuổi này chỉ có thu nhập nghiệp vụ hơn 1 triệu bảng và lọt vào vòng chung kết biểu diễn sẽ giúp cô ấy kiếm được tiền ít nhất là 880.000 bảng Anh. Cơ sở dữ liệu có thể vận hành Generator cho biết Bouchard có thể tìm kiếm hàng triệu thông tin được hỗ trợ chính trong năm."
}