{
  "article": "By . Emily Crane For Daily Mail Australia . She may be an aspiring model but this blonde bombshell has a little more on her mind than strutting on a catwalk. Brinkley Davies, 21, is a marine conservationist and she spends most of her free time free-diving with sharks and deadly sea creatures. The South Australian's social media accounts are bursting with photos of her on the sea floor and swimming alongside giant manta rays and whale sharks. Scroll down for video . Brinkley Davies, 21, is a marine conservationist and she spends most of her free time free-diving with sea creatures like this giant manta ray . The South Australian regularly volunteers at marine rescue centres where dolphins, seabirds and seals are rehabilitated . The blonde beauty isn't afraid of and loves getting up close to whale sharks and other creatures of the sea . The South Australian's social media accounts are bursting with photos of her on the sea floor . The aspiring model spends the majority of her spare time freediving around Australia . She may be an aspiring model but this blonde bombshell has a little more on her mind than strutting on a catwalk . Davies, who plans to travel to diverse marine biology areas throughout the next year, has just returned from Ningaloo Reef in Western Australia. 'I travelled to Ningaloo Reef and spent two weeks out on the water everyday, whale shark guiding, freediving and surfing.The diversity of marine life in this part of the word is phenomonal,' she said. She proudly boasted of swimming with a mother and calf humpback whale, whale sharks, tiger sharks, manta rays and dugongs. 'I was also lucky enough to view the reef from the whale shark spotter plane, and help spot humpbacks, whale sharks and manta rays from an aerial view.' Davies regularly volunteers at marine rescue centres where dolphins, seabirds and seals are rehabilitated and at the RSPCA in South Australia where she lives. The aspiring model grew up surfing the rough waves of South Australia and rode onto state titles, national titles and junior pro competitions. Now she's halfway through a marine biology degree at university. Davies, who plans to travel to diverse marine biology areas throughout the next year, has just returned from Ningaloo Reef in Western Australia . She proudly boasted of swimming with a mother and calf humpback whale, whale sharks, tiger sharks, manta rays and dugongs . The aspiring model grew up surfing the rough waves of South Australia and rode onto state titles, national titles and junior pro competitions . She's been involved in short films, music videos, lifestyle videos for photoshoots and modelled swimwear and on the fashion runway . The 21-year-old is halfway through a marine biology degree at university . Davies also helps out regularly at the RSPCA in South Australia where she lives .",
  "highlights": "Brinkley Davies, 21, is a marine conservationist and spends her time free-diving with sea animals .Her social media accounts are bursting with photos of her swimming alongside manta rays and sharks .The aspiring model is currently studying a marine biology degree at university .",
  "vi": "Brinkley Davies, 21 tuổi, là một nhà bảo tồn biển và dành thời gian lặn cùng các loài động vật biển. Các tài khoản mạng xã hội của cô tràn ngập những bức ảnh cô nhảy cùng cá chuồn và cá mập. Người mẫu đầy tham vọng hiện đang theo học ngành sinh học biển tại trường đại học."
}