{
  "article": "Dallas Cowboys running back Joseph Randle was arrested for shoplifting at an up-scale department store chain outlet on Monday, say Frisco Police. Police attended the Dillard’s store at Stonebriar Mall in Frisco, north of Dallas, at 8.17pm, after the young NFL star was detained by security staff. Randle, 22, who signed a four-year, $2.35 million contract last year, was charged with Class B misdemeanour theft of goods between the value of $50 to $500. Dallas Cowboys' Joseph Randle was arrested for shoplifting at a Dillard's department store in Frisco, Texas . Randle, 22, was arrested on Monday and released after posting £220 bail on Tuesday morning . A police spokesman told the Dallas Morning News that Randle tried to take a pack of two black Polo underwear valued at $39.50  and a small bottle of Gucci Guilty Black cologne priced at $84. Randle, whose base salary this season is $495,000, was released from custody on Tuesday morning after posting bail of $350, police confirmed. Although behind DeMarco Murray in the Cowboys' pecking order, Randle played a key role in their side's win over defending Super Bowl champions Seattle on Sunday. Against the league's top rushing defence, Randle rushed for 52 yards in their 30-23 win at CenturyLink Field. Randle came to the Cowboys as  a fifth-round draft pick from Oklahoma State in 2013 and it is hoped he can take pressure off Cowboys' workhorse superstar Murray. The running back is accused of trying to steal underwear worth £25 and cologne priced at £53 .",
  "highlights": "Dallas Cowboys running back Joseph Randle is accused of shoplifting .He was arrested Monday night and posted bail of Tuesday morning .Randle starred in Sunday's win over Seattle rushing for 52 yards .Signed a four year $2.35 million contract in May 2013 .",
  "vi": "Dallas Cowboys chạy lại Joseph Randle bị buộc tội cướp đồ. Anh ta bị bắt vào thứ hai tối và được xuất ra ở Thứ Ba sáng. Randle đóng vai chính trong chiến thắng Chủ Nhật trước Seattle với cự ly 52 thước. Ký đồng 4 giá trị 2,35 triệu đô la vào tháng 5 năm 2013."
}