{
  "article": "Scroll down for video . A wealthy businessman has made real estate history in Chicago after snapping up an unfinished penthouse in the Trump Tower hotel-condominium complex for a record $17million (£10.8million) in cash. It has been revealed that it will cost an additional $15million (£9.5million) to transform the raw space into a swanky pad on the skyscraper’s 89th floor. The Trump International Hotel and Tower penthouse was purchased by Sanjay Shah, founder and chief executive of Vistex, and is believed to be the most expensive residential purchase in Chicago's history. Sanjay Shah purchased the 89th-floor penthouse at the Trump International Hotel and Tower for a record $17million (£10.8million) It will cost an estimated $15million (£9.5million) to transform the penthouse, which is currently unfinished, into a swanky pad . Mr Shah says the penthouse will be a second residence for his family and be used to host events for his company and philanthropic efforts . The 46-year-old, whose tech company is headquartered in a Chicago suburb, scored a deal on the 14,260-square foot property, which had an asking price of $32million (£20million). Situated at the top of the 16th tallest building in the world, the penthouse has spectacular views of Lake Michigan and Chicago’s famed skyline, which features Willis Tower, America’s second tallest building at 1,451ft. Inside, the penthouse has a reception room with a footprint of nearly 1,300-square feet, a 1,122-square foot master bedroom, five fireplaces, an exercise room and a media room. The Trump International Hotel and Tower, named after billionaire real estate developer Donald Trump, is the 15th tallest building in the world . Located on the Chicago River in the heart of the city, the tower includes a five-star hotel with 339 guestrooms and suites . The top-floor penthouse flat is America's highest home and the second highest in the world, behind a flat in Dubai's Burj Khalifa . Mr Shah, a married father of two who was born in India, told the Chicago Tribune that the penthouse will act as a second residence for his family and it will be used to host events for his company and philanthropic efforts. He said: ‘I've travelled all around the world, but just in terms of the architecture, even if you go to New York, there are other high-rises, but nothing quite as exotic as this. ‘You can view every single landmark the city has. I think that's what appealed to me most about it.’",
  "highlights": "Penthouse with spectacular views of Chicago was purchased by tech company founder Sanjay Shah .Mr Shah plans to use the 89th floor flat as a second residence for his family and a space to host events .The eight-figure deal is believed to be the most expensive residential purchase in Chicago's history .Mr Shah, 46, scored a deal on the property as the original asking price was £20million.",
  "vi": "Căn hộ Penthouse với tầm nhìn tiêu điểm ở Chicago đã được thiết kế bởi công ty công nghệ Sanjay Shah mua lại. Ông Shah có kế hoạch sử dụng căn hộ ở tầng 89 làm nơi ở thứ hai cho gia đình và là tổ chức các sự kiện không gian. Thương mại có giá trị 8 con số được chọn là việc làm có giá trị cao nhất ở nhà trong lịch sử Chicago. Ông Shah, 46 tuổi, đã đạt được thỏa thuận mua bất động sản này khi giá chào bán ban đầu là 20 triệu bảng Anh."
}