{
  "article": "For those that moan about rocketing New York City rental prices: this one's for you. With sweeping views of Central Park and 5,000 square feet of living space, it won't come as a surprise that this palatial apartment on the 39th floor of the Pierre Hotel is on the costly side. But even realtors have been shocked by the price tag - set at $500,000 a month, easily the most expensive rental in the city's history. Palatial: This is the living room of New York City's most expensive rental in the Pierre Hotel which is on the market for $500,000 a month . Gaping views: The penthouse overlooks Central Park, the Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis Reservoir and the George Washington Bridge . It is double the price of the second most expensive apartment in the city, which pales in comparison at a measly $250,000 a month. The 4,786-square-foot floor includes the two-bedroom Presidential Suite, with the option of adding two other spaces bringing it to a total of six bedrooms. Perched at 2 East 61st Street, the delicate windows look out over Central Park, the Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis Reservoir and George Washington Bridge. And if the pantry kitchen is too small for would-be renters, they can always nip down to one of the hotel's two restaurants, Sirio Ristorante and Two E Bar/Lounge. The 4,786-square-foot floor includes the two-bedroom Presidential Suite, with the option of adding two other spaces with six bedrooms . Gold lining: Each of the six rooms has velvet patterned curtains, gold-lined bed sheets and bespoke artworks like this Giacometti lookalike . Luxurious living: Twice-daily housekeeping, butler service and a chauffeur-driven Jaguar are also available at the touch of a button . Lazing around: Sundays will be perfect lying in this marble bath on a marble podium looking out over the city . Twice-daily housekeeping, butler service and a chauffeur-driven Jaguar are also available at the touch of a button. Tenants must sign a lease for at least one month, and can stay for as long as they like on a month-to-month basis. Therese Bateman and Andres Perea-Garzon of Town Fifth Avenue have exclusive listing of the property, which they claim fills a 'strong unmet demand' in the city for large, flexible rentals. Not in the mood to cook? You can head downstairs to one of the hotel's two high-end restaurants Sirio Ristorante and Two E Bar/Lounge . Services: The hotel, a celebrity favorite, was once owned by Standard Oil tycoon John Paul Getty and features deluxe services .",
  "highlights": "The 39th floor of Pierre Hotel in New York City's Manhattan has entered the market at $500,000 a month .It is double the price of the second most expensive rental in the city, with 5,000 square feet of space .It includes the 2,000-square-foot Presidential Suite and two other rooms, with six bedrooms and six bathrooms .Guests must rent for at least a month, can use the chauffeur-driven Jaguar and twice-daily housekeeping .",
  "vi": "Tầng 39 của Khách sạn Pierre ở Manhattan, Thành phố New York, đã nhập trường với giá 500.000 USD một tháng. Nó cao gấp đôi giá cho thuê thứ hai trong thành phố, với diện tích 5.000 feet vuông. Nó bao gồm 2.000 feet vuông. Phòng Tổng thống và hai phòng khác, có sáu phòng ngủ và sáu phòng tắm. Khách phải thuê ít nhất một tháng, có thể sử dụng xe Jaguar có tài xế và dọn phòng hai lần mỗi ngày."
}