{
  "article": "By . Ashley Collman . While many like their Corona with lime, a man in Lincoln, Nebraska was pictured with a more unusual beer pairing at a monster truck rally last week. A user posted a picture to Reddit showing a man at Monster Jam drinking a dark liquid out of a bottle before cracking open a can of Miller Lite. ''Murica! Monster Jam is worth the admission just for the people you get to see! Yes, that's a syrup bottle,' the user named Travis wrote. Sipping on...beer and syrup? The man pictured in an orange cutoff t-shirt above was drinking a Miller Lite and syrup out of the bottle at a monster truck rally in Lincoln, Nebraska last week . Low blood sugar: Someone sitting near the man reported him telling cops that he was drinking the syrup because of his diabetes . Put it away: The cop was fine with the syrup after figuring out there was no hard alcohol involved. But an event person told him no outside food or beverage was permitted and that his bottle would be taken away if he continued to drink it . The next image shows a police officer approaching the man in an orange cutoff shirt about the dark liquid. 'The cop asked why he had it, and his response was that he was diabetic and his blood sugar was low,' Travis told SB Nation. That was a good enough reason for the cop, who left him alone, but not for the event organizers . 'The cop said ok and walked away, about 5 minutes after a woman who worked for the arena came and told the dude they didn't allow outside food or beverage and that if she saw him drink it again she would have it taken away . 'The guy put it away and started crying. No joke.' No tears: A Twitter user claiming to be the pictured man maintains that he did not cry at the monster truck rally . Following SB Nation's story posted on Friday, a man claiming to be the syrup-drinker emerged on Twitter calling Travis out. He maintains that he didn't cry, and if he did it didn't have anything to do with the syrup scandal. 'I Did Not Cry. I was feeling depressed...grave digger is THE shit,' a user named Damin Steinhauer wrote. That was the first and only tweet written by Steinhauer under the Twitter handle @taxedcitizen.",
  "highlights": "The man was pictured at Monster Jam last week in Lincoln, Nebraska .According to a Reddit user, the man was approached by cops who thought the bottle of dark liquid was hard alcohol .He then told the officer that it was syrup to control his low blood sugar .The officer left him alone but an event organizer told him no outside food or beverage was allowed and that he had to put it away .",
  "vi": "Người đàn ông được chụp hình tại Monster Jam tuần trước ở Lincoln, Nebraska. Theo một người dùng Reddit, đàn ông đã được cảnh báo tiếp theo. Họ cho rằng chai chất màu đen là chất cứng. Sau đó, anh ta nói với viên cảnh báo rằng đó là xi-rô để kiểm soát cơn buồn nôn của anh ta. lượng đường trong máu. Viên cảnh sát để anh ta một mình nhưng một sự kiện của tổ chức đã nói với anh ta rằng không được phép mang đồ ăn hoặc đồ dùng bên ngoài vào và anh ta phải lưu trữ nó."
}