{
  "article": "Fiorentina coach Vincenzo Montella fully expects sought-after winger Juan Cuadrado to stay at the club despite media reports linking him with a move to the Premier League. The Colombia international has been a rumoured target of Manchester United in the past few years while Chelsea are reportedly willing to pay Cuadrado's buyout clause set at £26.8million to acquire him this month. 'As of today, there's no possibility that Cuadrado will leave Fiorentina,' Montella told the Italian press. 'He (Cuadrado) knows that certain things are exaggerated. Juan Cuadrado (centre) celebrates after scoring against Atalanta to reach the Copa Italia quarter-finals . Chelsea are reportedly ready to meet the winger's £26.8m buyout clause to bring him to Stamford Bridge . 'There are just rumours and he is not paying attention to all that.' The 26-year-old joined Fiorentina in 2012 from Udinese and has been a regular in Montella's side since. Cuadrado scored 15 goals in 43 appearances in all competitions for the Viola in the 2013-14 campaign. The Colombian came to the attention of clubs including Man United  following his World Cup performances . The South American, who was one of the stand-out players alongside James Rodriguez for Colombia in last year's World Cup in Brazil, is under contract at the Artemio Franchi stadium until June 2019. He has scored four goals and set up four more in 16 league appearances for Fiorentina so far this season. Cuadrado scored from the penalty spot to help Fiorentina beat Atalanta 3-1 on Wednesday night and reach the quarter finals of the Coppa Italia. Cuadrado has been involved in eight goals in 16 appearances for the Viola this season .",
  "highlights": "Juan Cuadrado has been linked with Premier League move to Chelsea .The Blues were reported to be ready to meet the £26.8m buyout clause .Fiorentina coach Vincenzo Montella believes the Colombian will stay .Former Udinese winger was previously linked with Manchester United .",
  "vi": "Juan Cuadrado đã được liên hệ với việc chuyển đến Chelsea ở Premier League. The Blues đã sẵn sàng đáp ứng điều khoản mua bảng giá trị 26,8 triệu. Huấn luyện viên của Fiorentina, Vincenzo Montella tin rằng cầu thủ Colombia sẽ quay trở lại. Cựu cầu thủ chạy cánh Udinese trước đây đã được liên hệ với Manchester United."
}