{
  "article": "By . Katy Winter . It’s official, the UK is full of adoring mummy’s boys. Men are more likely to buy their mother a gift this Mother’s Day (47 per cent) than bought their partner a gift last Valentines (44 per cent), suggesting mum is still their number one girl. Men up and down the country claim it is easier to buy presents for their mum than their partner, with more than a quarter (27 per cent) citing their other half as the most difficult person to buy for. British boys, like Russell Brand and One Direction's Louis Tomlinson, are always mummy's boys at heart (left, Russell with his mother Barbara Elizabeth, and right, Louis with mother Johannah Poulston) On average, men admit to spending £26 on a gift for Mother’s Day, with one in ten (10 per cent) spending £50 or more on their mother. And it would seem that the boys are edging ahead of the girls when it comes to getting in their mother’s good books, with women admitting to spending slightly less on a Mother’s Day gift (£23). And with more than a quarter of Britons (27 per cent) admitting that they usually purchase gifts using their credit card, choosing the right card is more important than ever. Nerys Lewis, head of credit cards at Confused.com, who conducted the research, comments: 'It seems that we do indeed have a nation of mummy’s boys! While it is traditionally daughters who are seen to be the more caring of the sexes, this year it is boys who will be splashing out on their Mums and putting the girls to shame.' We imagine Simon Cowell will be spending more than the British average of £26 on his mother Julie Cowell (right) this Mother's Day .",
  "highlights": "More men plan to buy a Mother's Day gift than bought a Valentine's present .Over a quarter say their partner is the hardest person to buy for .Spend an average of £26 on their Mother's Day gift, girls spend £23 .One in ten will spend over £50 on a present for this Sunday .",
  "vi": "Nhiều đàn ông dự định mua quà cho Ngày của Mẹ hơn là mua quà Valentine. Hơn một phần tư cho biết bạn đời của họ là người khó mua nhất. Chi trung bình £26 cho món quà Ngày của Mẹ, các cô gái chi £23. Cứ mười người thì có một người sẽ mua chi hơn £50 để mua một món quà vào Chủ Nhật này ."
}