{
  "article": "It was Britain's booziest night of the year when workers let their hair down for Christmas parties across the country. But while most revellers enjoyed the busiest night of the party season so far, it all got too much for some partygoers on an evening that has been dubbed 'Mad Friday'. Police forces brought in extra officers to cope with demand and hospitals were on high alert as Britons put their health and safety at risk by opting for one drink too many. As boozed-up revellers recover from the night before, here is a roundup of some of the messiest moments. Scroll down for video . Hitching a ride: A man tries his best to give a woman a piggyback in Manchester city centre on the night Britain celebrated 'Mad Friday' Two friends practice a bit of mixed martial arts on a street corner in Camden, London . Steady on: A woman in Manchester takes a tumble as her friend does her best to keep her on two feet . Fallen: Eventually it all got too much for the reveller who sat down on the soaking wet pavement in Manchester . Resting: Two revellers pause for a break and slump down on the pavement in Bristol city centre . Ill-advised: A man climbed up the giant Christmas tree in Victoria Square, Belfast, at around 10pm last night . Fine dining: Revellers sit on a pavement in central London as they enjoy a late night snack . A reveller poses for pictures with a female police officer - and appears to be wearing her police hat . Fancy dress: Many people, including this reveller in Blackpool, wore Christmas themed outfits for Mad Friday . A woman is lifted up by two men while out celebrating in Swansea as many offices closed for the festive period . A woman wearing high platform shoes stumbles and falls over last night in Swansea's Wind Street . Two girls are looked after by police officers in Bristol city centre during 'Mad Friday' last night .",
  "highlights": "Last night was the busiest evening for work Christmas parties in Britain .Known as 'Mad Friday' it marks the start of the Christmas season for many .Pictures show how it all got too much for some in town and city centres .",
  "vi": "Đêm qua là buổi bận rộn rộn ràng nhất cho các bữa tiệc Giáng sinh tại nơi làm việc ở Anh. Được biết đến với cái tên 'Thứ Sáu điên rồ', nó đánh dấu sự khởi đầu của mùa Giáng sinh đối với nhiều người. Những bức ảnh cho thấy tất cả đã trở nên quá sức chịu đựng đối với một số người ở trung tâm thị trấn và thành phố."
}