{
  "article": "By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 04:34 EST, 20 November 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 05:25 EST, 20 November 2012 . Arrested in court: Lisa Biron (pictured) abducted a teenage girl to Canada and forced her to have sex on camera while on bail for child pornography charges . A female lawyer for an anti-gay Christian group abducted a teenage girl and forced her to have sex on camera while on bail for child pornography charges, it is alleged. Lisa Biron, 43, was arrested by FBI agents in a Manchester courtroom while awaiting a hearing on district-level charges of possessing pornographic material on her computer. A few hours later, she was taken into a court in Concord, New Hampshire, accused of taking the teenage girl to Canada, making her engage in sexual activity and convincing her to let it be filmed. Biron, who is associated with the anti-gay group Alliance Defending Freedom, was initially arrested after a man walked into the Manchester Police Department claiming he had seen pornography on her computer. After a search of her computer, police found five videos and two pictures of a teenage girl on her computer. Biron was released on bail on seven charges of possessing child pornography earlier this month. After her arrest by the FBI, she allegedly told agents they would find a loaded pistol under her mattress. They didn't find a weapon, but they did discover 200 rounds of ammunition in her Manchester home. At the hearing on federal-level charges, the prosecutor also alleged that: . Charged: Biron was arrested by FBI agents at a Manchester court (above) while awaiting a hearing on district-level charges of possessing pornographic material on her computer . Biron's lawyer, Jim Moir, asked the judge to consider his clients lack of criminal history and that she had attended all of her court appearances, according to the Concord Monitor. But Judge Landya McCafferty remanded her in custody after saying she was 'not at all comfortable' that she would comply with any new bail conditions. She is due to stand trial in January on the federal charges of transportation with intent to engage in criminal sexual activity, possession of child pornography and five counts of sexual exploitation of children. She faces up to life in prison if convicted. Biron, who was briefly associated with the Donais Law Offices in Manchester before her arrest, has been suspended indefinitely. On Biron's Facebook page, she lists the Bible as her favorite book.",
  "highlights": "Lisa Biron took teenager across border while on bail for child porn charges .She was arrested in court by the FBI as she awaited district-level hearing .Initially held after police allegedly found porn material on her computer .She is associated with the anti-gay group Alliance Defending Freedom .Two witnesses have testified to seeing Biron with ecstasy, marijuana and cocaine.Biron sent a text to the man who turned her into the police warning him to watch his back 'for ever'.Other youngsters have been subjected to Biron’s sexual activity and drug use .",
  "vi": "Lisa Biron đưa thiếu niên qua biên giới khi đang được tại ngoại vì tội khiêu dâm trẻ em. Cô ấy đã bị FBI bắt tại tòa án khi đang chờ phiên điều trần cấp quận. Ban đầu bị giữ sau khi cảnh sát được cho là đã tìm thấy tài liệu khiêu dâm trên máy tính của cô ấy. Cô ấy có liên quan đến những người chống đồng tính nam nhóm Liên minh Bảo vệ Tự do. Hai nhân chứng đã làm chứng khi nhìn thấy Biron với thuốc lắc, cần sa và cocaine. Biron đã gửi tin nhắn cho người đàn ông đã biến cô thành cảnh sát, cảnh báo anh ta phải trông chừng lưng mình 'mãi mãi'. Những thanh niên khác đã phải chịu sự chỉ trích của Biron hoạt động tình dục và sử dụng ma túy."
}