{
  "article": "Sportmsmail's Chief Sports Reporter Matt Lawton broke the story of Malky Mackay and Iain Moody's text exchange. Here's how the news rocked the football world... Wednesday . Exclusive: Chief Sports Reporter Matt Lawton's story in Thursday's Daily Mail . Thursday . Revelation: Sportsmail broke the story of Mackay and Moody's text message exchanges . Friday . Saturday . Texts: The LMA described Malky Mackay's messages to Iain Moody as ‘friendly text message banter’ Offensive: Sportsmail can reveal Malky Mackay called Vincent Tan a 'chink' in a disturbing text exchange .",
  "highlights": "Sportsmail exclusively revealed Malky Mackay and Iain Moody's text exchange on Thursday .Chief Sports Reporter Matt Lawton had chased story for weeks .Mackay pulled out of running to be new Crystal Palace boss .Moody resigned from post at Selhursrt Park following revelations .On Friday, Mackay publically apologised for the abusive texts .After weeks of chasing the story, Chief Sports Reporter Matt Lawton discovers Cardiff have sent a dossier to the FA, claiming former Cardiff City manager Malky Mackay and Crystal Palace Sporting Director Iain Moody had exchanged ‘racist, sexist and homophobic’ texts and email messages. With the final piece of his investigation falling into place, Lawton contacts all parties for comments.Sky Sports News reports that Mackay, who was expected to be named as the new Crystal Palace manager, has pulled out of the running to replace Tony Pulis.Moody’s lawyers attempt unsuccessfully to stop the Daily Mail from publishing the allegations.The Daily Mail publishes the exclusive story. Shortly after, former Cardiff City midfielder Ibrahim Farah takes to Twitter to label Mackay ‘disgusting’ and to complain about his treatment at the hands of Mackay.Moody resigns from his role at Crystal Palace.Leading football figures and anti-bigotry campaigners welcome the story, and call for swift action if allegations are substantiated.Early in the evening, Mackay’s agent speaks to Sky Sports News, saying the former Cardiff manager is shocked by the allegations and will fight them.Later in the evening, the League Managers Association issues an apology on Mackay’s behalf. Mackay denies allegations he is a racist and claims only ‘two’ of the text messages in question were sent by him. The ill-judged statement tries to dismiss the sordid exchanges between the two men as ‘friendly text banter’.Twitter responds by pouring scorn on the statement, with prominent former footballers Jason Roberts and Stan Collymore leading the criticism.Sportsmail publishes further details, with Lawton pointing out that, contrary to Mackay’s claims, the former Cardiff manager was reponsible for both racist and homophobic texts.Rio Ferdinand publicly criticises the LMA as ‘disgraceful’ and ‘insensitive’.The LMA apologises for its previous statement, conceding that ‘some of its wording’ was ‘inappropriate and has been perceived to trivialise matters of a racist, sexist or homophobic nature’.Cardiff officials question Mackay’s assertion that he was only responsible for two offensive texts and express horror at the LMA’s choice of words. Cardiff also call for the LMA’s chief executive Richard Bevan to resign.Sportsmail publishes further Textgate revelations from Lawton, with Mackay accused of calling the Cardiff owner Vincent Tan a ‘chink’."
}