{
  "article": "A family Christmas can bring a great deal of stress  – from the marathon cooking and endless washing-up to disappointment over gifts and heated family rows. No wonder it sees more relationships break down than at any other time of year, with twice as many couples beginning divorce proceedings in the first  week of January. Psychologist Rachel MacLynn – a relationship expert and founder of Vida Matchmaking Consultancy  – gives her advice for a harmonious Christmas .  .  . Un-happy Holidays: An all too familiar scene for many families at Christmas dinner . DO . . . Result: Taking care to ensure that the tantrums are kept at bay and proper preparation will make Christmas the happiest time of the year . DON’T . . .",
  "highlights": "The do's and don't to secure a happy holiday season around your family .Plan. Sit down with your partner and write a list of everything that needs to be done – assign tasks and  stick to them. That way no one can be accused of not pulling their weight.Take some time for  yourself. Go for a walk or have a hot bath. You need time to recharge your batteries and stay relaxed.RELATED ARTICLES .Previous .1 .2 .Next .The Christmas lunch ready meals that aren't ALL as foul as...Have a chilled Christmas: The Freeze Queen takes the stress...Hot news! The hostess trolley is cool again so there's a...Share this article .Share .DM.later('bundle', function(){ .DM.has('p-16', 'Rotator', { .pageSize: 1, .pageCount: 2.0, .activeClass:  'active', .rotate: false .}); .$('#p-16 .share').on('click', function() { .DMS.Facebook.postToFB('related'); .}); .}); .Previous .1 .2 .Next .The Christmas lunch ready meals that aren't ALL as foul as...Have a chilled Christmas: The Freeze Queen takes the stress...Hot news! The hostess trolley is cool again so there's a...Make an effort with the  in-laws. Aunt Betty might drive you crazy, but getting along will make your partner feel at ease.Offer to help. If you see your partner is stressed, suggest you take on some more tasks. Be proactive.Accept that Christmas  and relationships are never perfect. Lower your expectations and accept  that most of the time, it’s  the effort that counts.Say I love you. It helps.Start a deep debate when you have been drinking. It  will only lead to tears and unnecessary arguments.Bring up past problems. Regurgitating previous relationship issues is likely  to taint memories of the entire festive period.Complain about how much everything costs. Christmas  is expensive but it creates lasting happy memories, so spoil yourselves a bit.Forget that human contact can say everything, whether holding hands or cuddling on the sofa. Touching is crucial.Forget to spend quality time together, especially when your house is full of relatives. Let relatives look after the kids while you and your partner go for a walk.Let issues build up. If you are feeling neglected, ask your partner for a hug  and calmly explain how you feel. Don’t blow up in a tantrum or sulk."
}