{
  "article": "New Land Rover Discovery Sport . HSE Luxury 2.2L SD4 diesel . On sale: early 2015 Price: £41,195 . GOOD . Ray Massey (pictured) tests the features on the new seven-seater Land Rover Discovery Sport in Iceland . BAD .",
  "highlights": "The fantastic flexibility of features makes this car great for families .The car is highly rated with more emergency braking and stability control .Only the 2.2 litre SD4 diesel version will be on sale in the UK .Just in time for the Christmas break, I took the handsome new seven-seater Discovery Sport to Iceland — no, not the High Street frozen food chain, but a proper epic across ice and snow-covered landscapes on that Viking island south of the Arctic Circle.We may have been promised a disco inferno near the still-smouldering volcanoes, but it was more like Ice Station Zebra on the road. I've never seen so many fur-clad parkas since a screening of the Mod film Quadrophenia.This was no road test for sissies. I don't recall meeting any tarmac outside Reykjavik. Most of the crosscountry driving was on thick ice, thin ice, or snow. There was a constant threat of blizzard when, I'm told, visibility drops to nil. Thankfully the winter tyres and onboard safety features were up to it.On looks alone it's a winner. It may be a replacement for the Freelander, but it's bigger, smarter, more luxurious and flexible, even though the engine and much of the underpinnings remain the same.Great for families, thanks to fantastic flexibility. There are five seats for everyday use. But two extra ones pop up from the rear to create a magnificent seven.The willing 2.2 litre SD4 diesel is linked to a smooth 9-speed ZF automatic gearbox and accelerates briskly from rest to 62mph in 8.4 seconds so it's pretty nimble around town and when cruising, as well as off road. Top speed is 117mph. CO2 emissions are a fair 161g/km, helped by a 'stop-start' system.There's the option of manual override via paddles on the steering wheel. And boy did I use them as I traversed slippery glaciers and stormed up steep, snowclad hills. For winter in Britain, it'll do the job.The hill-descent control was a godsend. It takes control of the low gearing and braking to give you a reassuringly confident descent.It's been built with about 2ft (600mm) of wading depth, with a short overhang at the front and rear to help you cross shallow rivers and fords.The car has achieved the top 5-star rating with more emergency braking and stability control systems than you could wave a stick at — plus a pedestrian airbag.A comfortable and comforting interior with a commanding view of the road ahead and ample head and legroom in the back.It goes on sale on January 22, with first deliveries set for late February.Not the cheapest 4x4 by far and the 'extras' will soon mount up. You are paying a hefty premium for the badge and the engineering expertise behind it.Only the 2.2 litre SD4 diesel version will be on sale in the UK, no petrol option.There will be a 'greener' two-wheel-drive version soon, producing a 119g/km and costing less than £30,000. Great for looking the part, but frankly if you're going to buy a proper Land Rover, why have one that's not a 4x4?The hill descent control button needs to be more prominent so you could whack it into play in transit — when you suddenly realise you need it — rather than groping to find it."
}